22002255-22003300 2025 2030

# STRATEGY TECHNOLOGIES

O
F

# QUANTUM OF SPAIN

# STRATEGY TDEECHNOLOGIES

# QUANTUM DE SPAIN

# FOREWORD EWORDFOREWORD

Quantum technologies have arrived to mark a turning point in the history of science. Their development will bring about an unprecedented revolution in research and industry because quantum technologies will transform our understanding of the world and our ability to face the great challenges of the 21st century. These are challenges for which Europe must be prepared and for which Spain has transformative proposals.
The digital transformation, driven by the Spanish Government, must take advantage of the historic opportunity presented by quantum technologies to strengthen our digital sovereignty, stimulate our competitiveness and ensure sustainable, ethical and regulated development.
Hence the importance of Spain's Quantum Technologies Strategy 2025-2030. This strategy is the result of consensus and collaboration between two cross-cutting ministries: the Ministry for Digital Transformation and Public Administration and the Ministry of Science, Innovation and Universities. But it also stems from a participatory process involving other ministries, universities and research centres, the autonomous communities and local authorities involved in clusters and complementary plans, as well as cooperation with companies, start-ups and the Spanish quantum ecosystem.
This collective effort makes even more sense in the current context, in which global competition for quantum leadership is rapidly intensifying, as is already the case with other disruptive technologies such as Artificial Intelligence. All of this is fully in line with European initiatives and with a keen eye on the international context.
With this Strategy, the Spanish Government is taking on an unprecedented challenge: we are talking about a roadmap that will consolidate all the advances in this field, accelerate the pace of technological progress and amplify its impact on Spain today and tomorrow.
The purpose of this Strategy is to provide a common framework to guide decisions, align resources and build confidence throughout the national quantum ecosystem.
The Strategy also constitutes a call for cooperation, dialogue and coordinated action. We aspire not only to drive scientific and industrial progress, but also to create a robust, integrated and responsible ecosystem that ensures that the benefits of quantum technologies reach all citizens in an inclusive and equitable manner. Public-private collaboration and the active involvement of civil society will be essential to successfully address the ethical, social, regulatory and geopolitical challenges posed by these technologies.
Furthermore, we want tangible results. We want to focus innovation on specific use cases that respond to people's needs and the country's economic and strategic challenges. Quantum technologies open up transformative opportunities in key areas such as new materials, health, logistics, energy, defence, the space sector and digital security. These are areas where their application can make a decisive difference.
Technological innovation requires vision, ambition and commitment. Spain can and must drive a profound, sustainable and inclusive digital transformation.
That is why we invite all players in the sector to join us on the road to quantum Spain. We were late to other revolutions, but in this one we are determined to position ourselves differently from the outset and with determination.
Diana Morant Ripoll,
Minister of Science, Innovation and Universities
Óscar López Águeda, Minister for Digital Transformation and the Civil Service

# C C A A P P ÍÍT T U U L L O O I I. .CHAPTER I.

# Introduction

Quantum technologies are based on the principles of quantum mechanics, the branch of physics that studies the behaviour of matter and energy at extremely small scales, such as atoms and subatomic particles.
The discoveries of the first quantum revolution in the early 20th century marked a milestone in the understanding and application of the properties of quantum mechanics, such as interactions between molecules, atoms or smaller particles such as photons or electrons, giving rise to technological innovations that we live with today. These have facilitated a momentous advance in communications and computing, as in the case of semiconductors, which are the basis of microprocessors, or lasers, which have played a fundamental role in fibre optic communications.
The second quantum revolution, in which we are currently immersed, goes further and exploits the knowledge we have acquired in handling quantum phenomena. Unlike classical technology, which is governed by the laws of traditional physics, quantum technologies take advantage of quantum phenomena such as superposition, entanglement and interference, which manifest themselves especially in subatomic particles and in solid-state systems at extremely low temperatures, to develop devices with revolutionary capabilities.

## In the next decade, quantum technologies will have a disruptive impact on the economy and society.

Quantum technologies are usually classified into three main groups: quantum computing, quantum communication, and quantum sensing and metrology.
Firstly, quantum computing promises exponentially greater computing power than that offered by current classical computing, which will enable us to find more efficient solutions to complex problems, and even to problems that have been unsolvable until now. While a conventional computer operates on bits (each of which takes a defined value, 0 or 1), a quantum computer operates on qubits (physical systems that can be in quantum superpositions of the states 0 and 1). This feature, together with quantum parallelism and interference, greatly increases computing power, reducing calculations that would take centuries or would be completely unfeasible with ordinary computing to a matter of minutes.
While progress is being made towards achieving a universal quantum computer, work is also being done on alternative computational models: quantum simulation and emulation, and quantum-inspired computing. Quantum simulation, also known as analogue quantum computing, solves highly complex problems by modelling their behaviour with a specific quantum system. Quantum emulation, on the other hand, focuses on approximating the behaviour of quantum computers and simulators using specialised algorithms that can be run on classical supercomputers.
Finally, quantum-inspired computing proposes new classical solutions discovered using emulation tools and an understanding of how quantum computer algorithms work.
10 / SPAIN'S NATIONAL QUANTUM TECHNOLOGIES STRATEGY
This capability is expected to pose a risk to digital security, as quantum computers may be able to break current cryptographic algorithms. To mitigate this contingency, post-quantum cryptography (PQC) algorithms, which are resistant to possible attacks from quantum computers, may be implemented.
On the other hand, quantum communication will enable information to be transmitted over long distances, which will improve security and use entanglement and quantum teleportation to extend the distances between the transmitter and receiver. To ensure security, tools such as entanglement and the no-cloning principle will also be used to implement quantum key distribution (QKD) between different points, making it resistant to quantum and classical attacks. In the future, this discipline will possibly allow us to create a quantum network or internet. These networks will open up new, as yet unexplored forms of distributed computing and sensing, as well as enabling us to study the ultimate limits of quantum physics.
Finally, quantum sensors are capable of measuring physical properties with significantly greater precision than traditional sensors. For example, they can detect minimal differences in temperature or changes in the electromagnetic field or pressure with much greater accuracy than is currently possible. Quantum metrology, for its part, uses quantum mechanics to improve the traceability of measurements within the International System of Units and to ensure that they are comparable, reproducible and robust.
Over the next decade, quantum technologies will have a disruptive impact on the economy and, as has happened in the past with other technological revolutions, will transform society in ways that are unimaginable today. It will therefore be essential to master them in order to guarantee the security of communications, data and critical infrastructure, but above all to increase our industrial and economic competitiveness and enable us to operate in increasingly globalised markets.

# CHAPTERCHAPTER I.II. CHAPTER I.

# Strategic analysis of quantum technologies

## r economic impact

Quantum technologies are emerging as a key driver for the economy and employment in sectors such as cybersecurity, logistics, biotechnology, telecommunications, defence and energy. The global market for quantum technologies is estimated to reach between $106 billion and $173 billion by 2040(1) .
From an economic standpoint, quantum computing could improve efficiency in the financial sector, optimise risk models and accelerate decision-making in complex markets. It is estimated that, on its own, it will have a global market size of between $28 billion and $72 billion by 2035 and between $45 billion and $131 billion by 2040. As for the quantum communication sector, it will reach a market size of between $11 billion and $15 billion by 2035, with values of up to $36 billion in 2040. Meanwhile, quantum sensing, despite its smaller market volume, is estimated to reach a size of $500 million to $2.7 billion by 2035, increasing to $6 billion by 2040.
According to projections, due to the growth in the value of the quantum market and its crosscutting nature, the quantum technology market could generate added value for the economy as a whole of up to $2 trillion by 2035, with this added value coming mainly from its impact on sectors such as chemistry, life sciences, finance and mobility.
The global market size could reach
$173 billion
by 2040
USE CASE
Credit valuation adjustments (Credit adjustments)
valuation
The calculation of credit valuation adjustments (CVA), crucial in financial risk management, can benefit greatly from quantum computing.
Algorithms such as quantum amplitude estimation (QAE) and Monte Carlo simulations enable faster and more accurate assessment of default risks by exploring multiple scenarios simultaneously. This reduces computing costs and speeds up decision-making in volatile markets.
Their ability to model complex scenarios improves risk management in financial institutions, transforming the way uncertainty in markets is assessed.
The development of these technologies will also generate a multiplier effect on the economy by stimulating innovation, attracting foreign investment and encouraging the creation of new companies and start-ups. Currently, the sector has accumulated £42 billion in government funding worldwide and £8.5 billion in quantum start-up investment2. Despite a 27% decline in investment in quantum start-ups in 2023 in favour of generative AI start-ups, quantum technologies continue to attract large investment flows due to their disruptive potential in multiple industries, and their combination with AI will continue to grow in the coming years.
In Europe, the quantum computing market is expected to reach a value of $2.406 billion in 2030, up from $220.7 million in 2022, representing a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 34.8% during the period 2023-2030. This growth is mainly driven by increased public and private investment, as well as growing demand for optimisation solutions in sectors such as
automotive, energy, healthcare and finance. At the business level, there has been a gradual increase in the adoption of quantum computing as a tool for solving complex problems that exceed the capabilities of classical systems, consolidating Europe as a major player in the global race for these emerging technologies.
In addition, quantum technologies are set to profoundly transform the defence and security sector through disruptive capabilities that will radically change electronic warfare and communications, critical infrastructure security, and military intelligence. This will force states to rethink their defence strategies in the face of a rapidly evolving technological landscape.
Key applications such as secure communications systems, platform detection and real-time data accuracy could be significantly improved thanks to the development and deployment of these technologies. Quantum computing will make it possible to compromise, or even break, certain traditional encryption schemes, and drive the development of new methods of attack-resistant quantum cryptography. Quantum communication will also provide communication channels that are virtually invulnerable to interception, strengthening the security of military and government networks. In turn, quantum detection and radar will revolutionise surveillance and reconnaissance capabilities, enabling the detection of stealth aircraft and submarines with unprecedented accuracy.
Finally, quantum sensors will enable ultra-precise navigation without relying on the Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS) signal, a crucial aspect in environments subject to electronic interference or cyberattacks. On the other hand, the availability of unique platforms and restricted spaces free from external interference offers significant potential for the validation and experimentation of quantum sensors. These capabilities can not only strengthen the military sphere, but also have the potential to drive innovations in the civil sector based on this advanced technology.

## r social impact

From a social perspective, these technologies have the potential to improve multiple aspects of society, from health to mobility and cybersecurity. In health, quantum computing will enable advanced simulations of biomolecular processes, thereby accelerating the discovery of drugs and personalised treatments, with a projected impact of hundreds of billions of pounds on the pharmaceutical industry5.

## Quantum technologies will be a key tool for the security or telecommunications sector, but also for health, mobility, or climate disasters.

USE CASE
Urban traffic and public transport management can benefit from advances in quantum computing.
Bus route optimisation
By analysing variables such as traffic flows, urban events and mobility patterns in real time, quantum algorithms optimise bus routes, reducing waiting times and improving operational efficiency. This contributes to more agile mobility, reduces congestion and facilitates the adoption of low-emission vehicles.
In transport and logistics, quantum algorithms will be able to optimise routes and reduce congestion, improving the efficiency of public transport and reducing CO₂ emissions.
However, although quantum technology represents innovative solutions that will help resolve the challenges faced by the Ons Hsalǐh approach, unequal access to these technologies could exacerbate economic and technological inequalities. These imbalances would widen the digital and technological divide, limiting access to their benefits in regions with less technological development.
In addition, automation driven by quantum computing could displace some jobs7, requiring retraining strategies to mitigate its impact on the workforce. The lack of skilled talent is also a challenge, as demand for professionals specialising in quantum technologies is expected to increase, which could lead to a shortage of experts in the short term.

## nvironmental impact

From an environmental perspective, these technologies can contribute8 significantly to sustainability and the fight against climate change.
Quantum computing has the potential to improve energy production forecasting, enabling more efficient integration of renewable energies into the electricity grid and reducing dependence on fossil fuels. In industry, this technology will accelerate the development of advanced biofuels and new materials, promoting more sustainable alternatives for energy production and storage. It is also expected to play a crucial role in the battery revolution, optimising materials to improve their efficiency and lifespan.

## Quantum technologies can contribute to the green transition, for example by improving energy production forecasting.

USE CASE
The efficient integration of renewable energies depends on accurate forecasting of their production.
Energy production forecasting
Advanced quantum algorithms can analyse large-scale meteorological and operational data to anticipate energy generation, reducing uncertainty and optimising the balance between supply and demand. This allows for better planning in electricity grids and less dependence on fossil fuels, promoting the sustainability of the energy system.
Another key advance is the application of quantum computing in AI, where quantum-inspired algorithms can contribute significantly to energy savings. It is estimated that reducing the parameterisation time of AI models will optimise electricity consumption in data centres, increasing their efficiency and reducing their environmental footprint. This is particularly relevant, as it is projected that up to 15% of global energy will be used for the development of AI models in the coming years9.
Quantum sensors will soon lead a technological revolution in fields as varied as biomedicine, with ultra-precise sensors that will enable the imaging of electromagnetic fields at the cellular level or inertial navigation without GNSS. Applications are also expected in other fields, such as the environment, optimising the distribution of renewable energy and facilitating a more efficient energy transition. Quantum gravimeters are expected to play a crucial role, among other things, in geothermal exploration without the need for invasive drilling and in groundwater monitoring to improve water resource management.
However, the deployment of these technologies also presents environmental challenges. Quantum data centres could consume large amounts of energy and, although they could improve energy efficiency in the long term, in the initial phase they could increase electricity demand, raising the global carbon footprint. Likewise, the deployment of these technologies, such as quantum hardware, could involve industrial processes that are intensive in the search for, extraction and use of natural resources. It is estimated that quantum infrastructure, in its initial phase, could require a significant amount of rare and superconducting materials, posing additional challenges in terms of sustainability and supply chain.

## Impact on cy bersecurity and privacy

The deployment of these technologies will also entail risks for individuals and their digital rights, and for cybersecurity in general. Quantum computing, for example, could compromise current encryption schemes, exposing vulnerabilities in critical infrastructure and government, financial and commercial structures to potential attacks. This could compromise citizens' privacy and the security of digital systems, creating a crisis of confidence in the protection of personal data, as well as non-personal data such as trade secrets and intellectual property.
r international effort Given the economic, social and environmental impact of these technologies, as well as their
strategic relevance in areas such as defence and security, the major economic powers have designed and are implementing strategies focused on quantum development and deployment, through significant investments with a long-term focus. These economic powers recognise that quantum technologies will be strategic for their competitiveness and, above all, for their technological sovereignty.
Countries such as China stand out, with an estimated $15.3 billion in public investment between 2021 and 2027, focused on security, defence and artificial intelligence, according to announcements made in 2023.
The United States, through initiatives such as the National Quantum Initiative Act 2018 and the CHIPS and Science Act 2022, has structured its support for quantum research with a cumulative public investment of $3.75 billion, to which is added $3.8 billion in private investment, reflecting the strong role of venture capital in its ecosystem.
Canada, for its part, has committed to allocating more than $1.4 billion in public investment between 2012 and 2029, and approximately $1.3 billion in private investment. Its National Quantum Strategy, published in January 2023, prioritises scientific research, attracting talent and commercialising solutions, relying on innovation centres such as DistriQ in Quebec.
Singapore has allocated £138 million to its quantum programme since 2018, with a specific focus on cybersecurity, quantum communication networks and technological interoperability.
On the European continent, Germany announced in 2023 a total investment of €5.2 billion until 2026, with the aim of promoting regional clusters of excellence and developing a universal quantum computer with 100 operational qubits by that year. The United Kingdom, through its 2023 National Quantum Strategy, has committed the equivalent of $4.3 billion in public investment with concrete plans until 2035 for industrial applications and advanced networks. France announced in 2021 a €1.8 billion plan focused on quantum computing, photonics and job creation in the sector. Finally, the Netherlands, through the Quantum Delta NL programme, has allocated €965 million until 2030, with the aim of consolidating its quantum ecosystem as one of the most advanced on the continent11.

## The major economic powers have designed strategies focused on the development and deployment of these technologies, with longterm investments.

In this context, global competition in quantum technologies is intensifying, and countries are seeking to position themselves politically and economically, while also exploring integration with AI and supercomputing.
In the European Union (EU), reports by Mario Draghi12, Sauli Niinistö13 and Enrico Letta14 have led to a refocusing of our joint action, guiding us towards strengthening the internal market, competitiveness and innovation in dual technologies. In the Competitiveness Compass15 , published in 2025, the Commission recognises that quantum technologies will be fundamental to the EU's economic security and technological sovereignty in the coming decades. In fact, the European Commission itself already set out in the Digital Compass16 in 2021 the goal of developing a quantum computer by 2030.
Many of the national strategies were launched thanks to the momentum generated by the Quantum Technologies Flagship initiative17 , launched in 2017 and initially endowed with €1 billion until 2027. To date, the EU has planned an investment of around €8 billion. Complementing this, the future proposal for a Quantum Act aims to consolidate a pan-European industrial and scientific ecosystem, increasing our economic security and digital autonomy. However,
The fragmentation of national efforts remains a challenge. The EU has therefore urged Member States to strengthen cross-border cooperation and avoid internal competition. This request is reflected in the European Declaration on Quantum Technologies18 , promoted by Spain during its Presidency of the Council of the EU, which prioritised efforts between Member States and the search for consensus. For all these reasons, a common, coordinated and strategic plan is particularly important in order to avoid internal competition between states and duplication of efforts. This plan will take shape through the European Strategy for Quantum Technologies, scheduled for 2025. Spain is present in the European Commission's working groups, participating in the co-creation process of this European initiative from the outset, providing valuable information and positioning on our strengths.
On the other hand, creating synergies and taking advantage of the European scale is key to the development of quantum infrastructures. Priority actions that will enable us to jointly have a network of infrastructures are:
- The EuroQCI19 (European Quantum Communication Infrastructure), for the implementation of a secure quantum communications network, funded by the Cybersecurity pillar of the Digital Europe Programme; and
- EuroQCS1720(Quantum Computing and Simulation Infrastructure) funded by the EuroHPC Joint Undertaking21Digital Europe Programme to create a high-performance supercomputing ecosystem in the EU, integrating networked quantum computers and simulators to strengthen the computing infrastructure.
Likewise, in the field of quantum hardware, the promotion of specific European funding is key to the development of pilot lines of quantum chips, which may cover technologies such as photonics, superconductors, cold atoms, trapped ions, semiconductors and diamonds, taking into account the necessary diversification in these enabling technologies.
In turn, funding programmes such as the STEP Platform22 (Strategic Technologies for Europe Platform), which focuses on projects for the development or manufacture of strategic technologies and can increase funding for them from Member States, the European Tech Champions Initiative (ETCI), to which Spain contributes €700 million23 to finance the latest rounds of venture capital investment, and the European Innovation Council (EIC) Accelerator24 , which focuses on pre-seed and seed operations, will be key to enabling European quantum start-ups to compete globally without relying on foreign capital, as well as accelerating the industrialisation of quantum technologies, safeguarding our strategic autonomy.

# A common, coordinated and strategic plan among EU Member States is particularly important.

Spain must operate in a highly competitive environment and prioritise its investments in quantum technologies as key to digital sovereignty and economic security.
At the transatlantic level, NATO has activated a strategy25 to address the changes that these technologies are expected to bring, considering them to be emerging and disruptive with the potential to revolutionise the way it operates and conducts its defence operations. Noteworthy examples include the Defence Innovation Accelerator for the North Atlantic (DIANA), the Transatlantic Quantum Community (TQC), focused on the application of quantum technologies in defence, and the Science and Technology Organisation26 (STO), which promotes the exchange of information between key players and has recently created a specific Science and Technology Panel (TSI) to cover quantum technologies, among others.
This analysis shows that Spain must operate in a highly competitive environment and prioritise its investments in quantum technologies as a key element for technological sovereignty and national and European economic security. In this scenario, the country cannot afford to fall behind; it must take advantage of the opportunities arising from the development and deployment of these technologies, ensuring their integration into the global value chain and actively contributing to the European quantum ecosystem.
To this end, it is essential to understand Spain's starting point and its ecosystem, so that areas where strengths already exist can be reinforced and leadership opportunities can be developed to the fullest, in addition to preparing society for the disruptive change that these technologies entail, promoting a structured transition that guarantees long-term economic and social benefits. National coordination between key players will be crucial to consolidating a robust and competitive quantum ecosystem that positions Spain as a European leader in this technological revolution and, at the same time, allows it to take advantage of European synergies and resources in the medium and long term.

## USE CASE

In the face of extreme weather events, the ability to anticipate risks is essential.
Climate risk simulation
Quantum algorithms can simulate hurricane, drought or flood scenarios with greater accuracy, helping governments and businesses to design more effective mitigation strategies. This strengthens the resilience of infrastructure and economies in the face of climate change.
27

## Practical application of quantum technologies to the SDGs

In agriculture (SDG 2: Zero Hunger), quantum computing could optimise crop production, improve resource allocation and facilitate the monitoring of plant health. It would also accelerate the development of new-generation fertilisers and environmentally friendly and safe alternatives to pesticides, speeding up genetic analysis of crops and agricultural improvement processes.
In water management (SDG 6: Clean Water and Sanitation), technologies such as quantum gravimeters would enable more accurate monitoring of underground aquifers, which are essential for drinking water supply and agriculture. Highly sensitive quantum sensors could detect contaminants in water more quickly and accurately than current technologies, while quantum simulations would contribute to the development of new filtration and purification systems.
For more sustainable cities (SDG 11: Sustainable Cities and Communities), quantum computing would help improve urban planning, optimise traffic and reduce pollution through efficient transport management. It would also facilitate the creation of new materials for more resistant and sustainable infrastructure. It is also expected to contribute to more accurate predictions of extreme weather events such as droughts, earthquakes and floods.
In terms of climate action (SDG 13: Climate Action), quantum computing could accelerate decarbonisation by optimising energy use and reducing CO₂ emissions. Quantum simulations in chemistry and materials science would be key to developing new renewable energy technologies, improving batteries, and advancing carbon removal methods. They would also enable better forecasting of wind and solar energy production, supporting the transition to a sustainable energy system.

# C C A A P P ÍÍT T U U L L O O I I I I I I. CHAPTER III. .

## Spain: where we stand with quantum technologies

Spain is starting from a solid position in the development of quantum technologies, with investments made since 2020 thanks to the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan by the Spanish Government, and also thanks to the Autonomous Communities and Local Entities. This has led to significant advances in the development of quantum technologies, especially in quantum computing and communications, as well as the gradual emergence of regional and national ecosystems.
In the scientific field, Spain has a solid and recognised research base in key areas of quantum technologies, as well as growing investment in human capital. The Ministry of Science, Innovation and Universities (MICIU) has promoted various initiatives in this field, within the framework of the Spanish Strategy for Science, Technology and Innovation (EECTI)27 2021-2027, and the State Plan for Scientific and Technical Research and Innovation (PEICTI)28 2024-2027.
Spain regularly contributes to the funding of fundamental and applied research groups, which has consolidated its position as a benchmark in various technologies, particularly in the creation of quantum optical communication devices, their integration into commercial networks and in the field of quantum sensors. Since 2016, through the State Research Agency (AEI), a total of 366 projects have been funded with €46.8 million, in addition to €51 million in grants for the recruitment of personnel specialised in quantum technologies (138 Ramón y Cajal research contracts, 122 Juan de la Cierva contracts, 19 Torres Quevedo Programme contracts and 6 grants for doctoral training in collaboration with industry).
35
laboratories collaborate in the Interdisciplinary Thematic Platform on Quantum Technologies of the CSIC
In the field of research, the Spanish National Research Council (CSIC) leads the Interdisciplinary Thematic Platform on Quantum Technologies (PTI QTEP-CSIC)29 , which brings together 35 laboratories from 21 Spanish centres and is organised into three areas: acquisition tasks (sensor technology and metrology), communication, and quantum information processing (computing and simulation). This collaborative network integrates numerous universities, public research bodies and companies into its research and training activities. For example, a quantum computing laboratory has been created in Oviedo (CINN)30 , a quantum communication laboratory in Madrid (ITEFI-CSIC)31 and the inter-university master's degree in quantum technologies in Spain32 , coordinated by the CSIC through the Menéndez Pelayo International University (UIMP), in collaboration with nine other universities.
The Institute of Photonic Sciences (ICFO) has established itself as one of the leading international centres for quantum technologies, spearheading pioneering research in quantum photonics, high-precision quantum sensors and secure quantum communications. Its work has been key in the development of advanced quantum detection systems and in the deployment of infrastructures for quantum key distribution networks.
Another key organisation in Spanish research is the Canary Islands Institute of Astrophysics (IAC), which investigates ways of compensating for the adverse effects of atmospheric turbulence, a key challenge for the implementation of these technologies in operational environments. The IAC is a world leader in the astrophysical application of these techniques.
It is currently building the IAClink infrastructure, a facility that is unique in the world thanks to the direct line of sight between the Roque de los Muchachos and Teide observatories. Interestingly, the first demonstration33 of free-space quantum communications was carried out between the islands of La Palma and Tenerife in 2007.
To promote leadership in fundamental and applied research, it has also been necessary to develop key infrastructure that facilitates the work of researchers. MICIU funds and coordinates three Unique Scientific and Technical Infrastructures (ICTS)34 , which are of considerable importance for quantum technologies:
- Micronanofabs35, composed of three nodes36, is dedicated to micro- and nanofabrication and photonics.
- The Spanish Supercomputing Network (RES)37, coordinated by the Barcelona Supercomputing Centre – National Supercomputing Centre38 , which provides services throughout Spain with supercomputing and quantum computing capabilities and invests in these areas.
- RedIRIS 39, managed by the public entity Red.es, as a national academic communications network and platform for experimentation in these technologies.

## £22 million invested in Quantum Spain; 100% European technology

It is worth mentioning the National Deep Tech Strategy, which is currently being developed and promoted by several Spanish government ministries.
In addition, the MICIU, in collaboration with six Autonomous Communities(40) ,has deployed the Complementary Quantum Communication Plan (POCC)41 , with a total investment of €75 million between 2021 and 2025, to support the development of a national-scale infrastructure that will enable growth towards the EuroQCI, promote the development of hardware and software for quantum communications and processing, and provide training for innovation and enterprise.
On the other hand, the Ministry of Defence published its Defence Technology and Innovation Strategy in 202042 to ensure operational superiority and industrial sovereignty in a competitive global environment. This document includes quantum technology within the strategic R&D&I lines for defence, with a focus on its potential for cybersecurity, advanced data processing and secure communications. The National Institute of Aerospace Technology (INTA), under the Ministry of Defence, has positioned itself as an international benchmark in the field of space optics and is a key player in the development of quantum communications space systems, leading initiatives ranging from research to deployment. INTA has consolidated knowledge in the development of space platforms, environmental testing for space systems and a strategic network of ground stations. In addition, its capabilities in unmanned aerial systems (UAVs) reinforce its role in the development of dual-application quantum technologies.

# 75 million

## invested in the Complementary Quantum Communication Plan

The Ministry for Digital Transformation and Public Administration (MTDFP) has promoted the 2020 National Artificial Intelligence Strategy (ENIA)43 and its revision (2024)44 as a basis for possible future synergies, strengthening Spain's position in the global technological ecosystem. In the field of quantum technologies, the MTDFP has made the following investments, with funds from the Recovery Plan:
- The Quantum Spain project, coordinated by the BSC-CNS, has been launched with an investment of €22 million45, enabling the acquisition of superconducting-based quantum computing capabilities that will support research46 and innovation in the Spanish quantum ecosystem47.
- A second quantum computer has been launched, also located at the BSC-CNS. In this case, based on analogue technology, quantum annsarsr, co-financed by the EuroHPC JU with a total of €8.5 million, which allows for diversification in the construction of its quantum computing infrastructures to serve the research and innovation ecosystem.
- In order to diversify investment in quantum computing enabling technologies, a simulator and computer based on Rydberg atoms is being built through the Centre for Research in Nanomaterials and Nanotechnology (CINN)49 , located in Asturias, with €7 million in funding.
These quantum computing initiatives focus on specific projects, recognising the need for a European scale to compete in the international race. However, they are essential for creating the necessary infrastructure, the quantum ecosystem and its auxiliary industry, testing technological advances and promoting their implementation.
All these investments in infrastructure and research have generated new opportunities for innovation and application of these technologies in strategic sectors, such as telecommunications, energy and defence, fostering the development of high-impact companies and spin-offs in quantum technologies, some of which are very promising in their respective fields of activity.

## USE CASE

## Nitrogen fixation for sustainable agriculture (Nitrogen fixation)

The agricultural sector is seeking more sustainable solutions for fertiliser production, and quantum computing can play a key role in this process. Through advanced simulations, it is possible to design catalysts that mimic biological nitrogen fixation, reducing dependence on highly polluting industrial processes.
In addition to optimising production, this facilitates access to fertilisers for small farmers and contributes to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions.
Spain already has experience helping spin-offs enter the market, quantum start-ups obtain funding, and demonstrating through use cases how quantum technologies can help achieve a more productive and efficient economy. A report50published in 2022 identified 32 Spanish companies interested in quantum technologies (12 of them large companies and 20 SMEs or startups), but this ecosystem has clearly grown in recent years thanks to spin-offs from research institutions. Furthermore, there is institutional consensus on the importance of promoting these technologies, aligning with the European Union in the pursuit of greater competitiveness, autonomy and technological sovereignty.
The transfer of knowledge between research and the market is therefore essential, and many of the activities are included in the PEICTI 2024-2027 Transfer and Collaboration Programme. The Centre for Technological Development and Innovation (CDTI)51has played a key role as a funding agent for quantum innovation. Over the last five years (2020-2025), €46.6 million has been allocated to a total of 40 projects focused on the development of quantum technologies and their application in sectors
diverse (mainly ICT and energy, but also with representation in the aerospace sector, industrial sectors, and security and defence). Both loans, through the Cervera Technology Transfer R&D projects52 , and grants, through the Science and Innovation Missions programme 53 , have been used.The latter is the CDTI's major commitment to supporting strategic, R&D-intensive initiatives developed in public-private partnerships. Under this typology, €21 million has already been allocated to the development of quantum technologies. These include, for example, a quantum computing and AI project to revolutionise excellence and digitalisation in the health sector through the PERTE de Salud de Vanguardia (Cutting-Edge Health PERTE).
Similarly, the participation of technology-based companies focused on developing these technologies in the NEOTEC subsidy programme54is highly representative. In total, from 2020 to date, 16 projects related to quantum technologies have been supported, with an associated subsidy of close to €5 million. For its part, within the missions of PERTE Chip55, two major projects (10 operations) have been supported with a grant of close to €4.5 million for microelectronics and semiconductors.
Quantum technology clusters have been established in various autonomous communities and local authorities in Spain to strengthen their innovation ecosystems and position themselves in this emerging field. Catalonia and the Basque Country have made significant progress in structuring their quantum ecosystems. Both autonomous communities have developed coordinated organisational models that act as points of contact and collaboration platforms for industry, academia and the public sector.
In Catalonia, the creation of the Consell de les Tecnologies Quantes de Catalunya (Quantum Technologies Council of Catalonia) was approved in 2021, with the function of advising the Government of Catalonia on policies aimed at promoting quantum technologies.
quantum. Through initiatives such as the R&D&I programme within the framework of the Complementary Plan in the area of quantum communication, Vall Mediterroney de la Ciència i les Tecnologies Quántiques56 and QuantumCAT, specific programmes have been implemented for the development of talent in this field, demonstrating a comprehensive approach to its quantum strategy, announced in 2023.
The Basque Quantum Strategy (BasQ) to promote quantum technologies, led by the Basque Government in coordination with the provincial councils of Álava, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa, was launched in 2023. BasQ's fundamental objective is to develop the Basque Country into one of the world's leading quantum hubs, building on its scientific system specialising in quantum technologies. This strategy includes initiatives such as expanding scientific capacity, coordinating and strengthening university offerings, initiating a process to accelerate use cases aimed at companies and economic agents, and promoting new companies.
BasQ plans to install and launch a large modular quantum computing infrastructure in Donostia/San Sebastián by the end of 2025 to move towards a high-performance quantum infrastructure. From the perspective of accelerating use, this initiative complements the vision of promoting the development of European quantum computing technological sovereignty to explore solutions to new problems as new capabilities are developed57 . In addition, Bizkaia has presented its quantum industrial strategy called Biqain58 , with the aim of consolidating itself as a benchmark in quantum technologies at European and international level.
Galicia is also investing in quantum computing, positioning itself as a key player on the national quantum capabilities map. Among its initiatives, the launch of the Qmio quantum computer at the Galician Supercomputing Centre (CES-GA) stands out. This advanced infrastructure is part of the Galician Quantum Technologies Hub59 , an initiative that seeks to generate an ecosystem of innovation, applied research and technology transfer around quantum technologies.
The Community of Madrid is positioning itself in the European quantum future, with a strategy aimed at turning the region into a benchmark hub for applied quantum technologies. In addition to the deployment of MadQCI60 —a quantum cybersecurity network that will connect the metropolitan area with future European and extra-Community infrastructure— the region is promoting the creation of a quantum cluster that will facilitate companies' access to international networks, their participation in strategic R&D&I programmes, and their integration into emerging markets. This commitment is built on a solid scientific foundation, an experimental network that is already operational—the largest in Europe for quantum key distribution—and a clear vision: to consolidate a regional ecosystem that integrates the entire quantum value chain, from knowledge to business, promoting entrepreneurship, public-private collaboration, and technological autonomy.
Through the COMPUTAEX Foundation (Computing and Advanced Technologies of Extremadura), Extremadura has positioned itself as a key player in the national quantum technology ecosystem, hosting one of the quantum emulators available in Spain on classical supercomputing architectures. This resource allows the research community to access quantum capabilities and simulators, thus facilitating the development and validation of quantum algorithms in an accessible, high-performance environment.
The Regional Government of Andalusia, through the Andalusian Digital Agency (ADA) and within the framework of the Hercules project61, is funding the development of an innovation ecosystem in emerging technologies, including quantum computing. The initiative includes the integration of quantum emulation software on the Hercules supercomputer, the training of specialised personnel, and the creation of an open infrastructure so that start-ups, companies and research personnel can remotely access and work on the design and testing of quantum algorithms.
USE CASE

## Drug discovery through quantum simulations (Drug discovery through quantum simulations)

Biomedical research benefits greatly from quantum computing's ability to model molecular interactions with extremely high precision. This makes it possible to identify promising compounds, optimise their design and reduce the time and cost of developing new drugs.
Its application is key to accelerating the discovery of treatments for complex diseases, improving the efficiency of the pharmaceutical industry.
The Autonomous Community of Aragon has also begun to develop relevant capabilities in the field of quantum technologies, highlighting the role of the Aragon Supercomputing Centre (CESAR). These initiatives are articulated within the framework of the Aragon Smart Specialisation Strategy (S3 2021-2027), which identifies quantum technologies as an emerging line of regional interest in the field of enabling technologies.

## 32

Spanish companies interested in quantum technologies in 2022
La Rioja has also decided to commit to the development of quantum technologies and has invested in a supercomputing centre with advanced infrastructure for HPC, AI and quantum simulation for the development of high-performance scientific, industrial and linguistic applications. In addition, TECHRIOJA will host one of the nodes of the National Supercomputing Centre associated with the Industrias del Español data centre.
Finally, Navarre has also begun to take its first steps in the field of quantum computing, promoting the development of a quantum computing emulation system through the Public University of Navarre (UPNA).
This set of initiatives reflects the importance of governance that considers the territorial organisation of quantum clusters in Spain, promoting collaboration between regions for the benefit of the entire national ecosystem.
In this context, it is worth noting that Spain has a significant presence of top-level scientists in the quantum field who carry out their work in international centres of excellence. In addition, Spanish professionals hold key positions in global technology companies that lead the development of quantum hardware, algorithms and applications. This international projection highlights the high educational and scientific quality of Spanish talent, consolidating our country as a relevant player at the forefront of quantum research.
However, Spain also faces significant structural challenges, many of which are shared with Europe, that limit the growth of this sector:
- The lack of technological infrastructure limits the creation of scalable quantum products and services. In addition, dependence on critical materials and essential components, whose availability is limited, could hinder the development of national quantum hardware.
The lack of large-scale venture capital funds in Europe makes it difficult to finance quantum projects. Return on investment
in this sector requires long timeframes, which discourages private investors.
- Demand for the implementation of these types of technologies remains minimal, and the added value of these innovations in commercial environments has yet to be demonstrated. This is linked to the need to structure and articulate value chains that allow the knowledge generated in academia to be transferred to industry.
- The lack of coordination between different public and private initiatives has led to a fragmented national ecosystem, in which regions compete for resources, which could affect the effectiveness of national efforts.
- The risk to security, confidentiality of information and privacy of personal data. This risk must be overcome through the development and implementation of post-quantum cryptography (PQC) standards at all levels.
- Attracting and retaining talent in the quantum sector. Global competition for highly qualified professionals trained in Spain is intense. This leads to a brain drain and a loss of investment in education, and reduces the competitiveness of our labour market.
- The absence of large national corporations with the capacity to scale up in the quantum sector or invest in the commercial development of these technologies is a competitive disadvantage, making it difficult to compete internationally.
Despite these challenges, there are significant opportunities for Spain and its ecosystem.
The country has the potential to consolidate its position in strategic sectors such as photonics or quantum communications, quantum and quantum-inspired software, and the convergence between AI and quantum computing, where it is already demonstrating growing leadership at the European level. For example,
The CUCO62project, funded by the CDTI, has developed use cases for quantum and quantum-inspired algorithms in sectors such as energy, finance, space, defence and logistics. It has also promoted the training of professionals with skills in quantum programming, a key aspect for the development of applications of industrial interest.
On the other hand, quantum sensors and metrology are emerging as a sector with great potential that Spain must take advantage of. The investment risk in this field is much lower than in others, such as quantum computing. This is because its level of technological maturity and commercial potential are high and ready for commercial deployment. However, adequate infrastructure is needed to promote the testing and scaling of commercial quantum sensor solutions, as well as significant flagship projects in this regard.
Therefore, Spain's opportunity lies not only in advancing fundamental and applied research, but also in generating a new quantum industrial fabric, which is essential for consolidating itself as a competitive ecosystem at the European level. To this end, European cooperation and alliances at all levels must be leveraged, which will increase the critical mass of companies, innovators and researchers in these sectors, enhancing their impact and accelerating their development.
USE CASE
Music composition assisted by quantum computing
Musical creativity can also benefit from the power of quantum computing. Specialised algorithms analyse sound patterns and harmonies to generate and optimise compositions based on complex musical structures.
This technology drives the production of interactive music and facilitates experimentation, opening up new possibilities in assisted composition and the creation of dynamic soundtracks.
A growing quantum ecosystem with clusters in Catalonia, the Basque Country, Galicia, Asturias and Madrid.
Advanced scientific infrastructure (CSIC, BSC-CNS, ICFO, IAC, etc.). and specialised laboratories.
Leadership in photonics, quantum communications, quantum computing and AI.
Institutional support with the Quantum Technologies Strategy (2025-2030).
Development of post-quantum cryptography for digital security.
Limited infrastructure to scale quantum hardware, especially from a market perspective
Limited access to venture capital, mainly private, and lack of large corporations in the sector.
Fragmentation of the quantum ecosystem, with regional competition for resources.
Low commercial and industrial demand for technologies
D Strategic projects that drive use cases and training in quantum programming. F Strengths in Spain. Brain drain due to high international competition. Quantum sensing and metrology with high commercial potential. O Opportunities Weaknesses A Delay in the adoption of standards for Attracting investment and developing the national quantum industry. European cooperation to expand the critical mass of Threats quantum security. Dependence on critical materials and essential components. Companies and research personnel. Positioning as a quantum hub in sectors such as defence, energy and logistics. Global competition with countries advancing rapidly in quantum computing. Difficulty in retaining specialised talent.
Risk of dependence on international players in the sector.
With all this in mind, and framing the scientific development of innovation within the Spanish Strategy for Science, Technology and Innovation (EECTI) 2021-2027 and the State Plan for Scientific, Technical and Innovation Research (PEICTI) 2024-2027, the Spanish Quantum Technologies Strategy (2025-2030) has been designed. Spain is thus joining the global race in which it must take part, prioritising investment in those quantum technologies where there are opportunities for leadership and in key levers that will accelerate our competitiveness, with the aim of bringing quantum technologies closer to the market.

# C C A A P P ÍÍT T U U L L O O I I V V. CHAPTER IV..

## Strategic Objectives

Taking into account the above analyses and the investments already made in the country, Spain's Quantum Technologies Strategy (2025-2030) will be rolled out to meet four strategic objectives that will be key to making Spain and its quantum ecosystem a European and international benchmark by 2030. These are:
1
2 3
Strengthen research and R&D&I to promote knowledge transfer and facilitate the transfer of research to the market. This includes establishing ongoing dialogue between academia and industry, investing in increasing the development of these technologies.
Create a Spanish quantum market, promoting the growth and emergence of quantum companies, and their ability to access capital and meet demand.
Prepare society for disruptive change, promoting security through post-quantum encryption and reflection on a new digital right: post-quantum privacy.
Consolidate the quantum ecosystem in a way that tracks a vision for the country and takes advantage of European and international funding and leadership opportunities.
To ensure4 that these objectives are achieved by 2030, it is essential to define a series of priorities to be implemented with short-, medium- and long-term initiatives. In defining priorities and initiatives, a strategic approach must be adopted, avoiding the dispersion of resources and focusing on those with the greatest potential for transformation. This involves strengthening key quantum variants that can provide strategic advantages at the industrial, economic and security levels.
The Strategy must be based on structured cooperation at local, regional, national and European level, ensuring coordination of efforts between the Autonomous Communities and Local Authorities, the private sector, academia and the General State Administration. It is essential to move forward in a coordinated manner within a collaborative framework that maximises synergies and avoids fragmentation that could weaken the impact of investments at national or regional level. At the same time, we must strengthen Spain's presence in European and international programmes, developing capabilities that position us as a relevant player in the global quantum ecosystem. Furthermore, given the rapid advancement of these technologies and the changing economic and geopolitical context, the Strategy must be flexible and reviewable every two years to adapt to new funding frameworks and the evolution of the Spanish quantum ecosystem.
With this approach, Spain will not only strengthen its technological sovereignty and industrial competitiveness, but also position quantum technologies as a catalyst for scientific progress and a pillar for long-term economic and social well-being.
Quantum technologies in Spain must position themselves as a catalyst for longterm economic progress and social welfare.
50 / SPAIN'S NATIONAL QUANTUM TECHNOLOGIES STRATEGY

## Priorities of the Strategy

1 2 3 4 5 6 7
Empowering Spanish companies in quantum technologies
Algorithms and technological convergence between
AI and Quantum making Spain a benchmark in quantum communications
Demonstrate the impact of quantum sensing and metrology
Privacy and confidentiality of information in the post-quantum world
Strengthening capabilities: infrastructure, research and talent
Promoting a robust, coordinated Spanish quantum ecosystem and leading the EU
53
1
Priority 1: Empower Spanish companies in quantum technologies a n d
The potential of quantum technologies to strengthen Spain's competitiveness in numerous sectors such as finance, defence, cybersecurity, aerospace, telecommunications, energy and logistics, among others, generates new opportunities to promote the emergence of players in the national quantum market. Furthermore, this potential is increased by the possible synergies of these technologies with others such as AI or biotechnology63.
The barriers to entry into this quantum ecosystem, in which buyers and sellers of goods and services interact, are significant. In this market, characterised by its innovative nature, the following stand out: the difficulty of accessing infrastructure for testing prototypes, such as quantum computing infrastructure; the complexity of protecting the results of quantum solutions; the lack of a business culture in the research field, the gap between research and commercialisation, the lack of knowledge of the uses and applications of these technologies on the part of a still-nascent demand, the high initial costs, and the difficulties in accessing financing, both banking and alternative, in the different stages of growth.
Specifically, with regard to patent creation, there is a widespread problem. Although the European Union has a similar level of patent development to the United States and China, only one-third of patents registered64 by European universities are commercially exploited. However, start-ups that have registered patents or trademarks65 are up to ten times more likely to obtain early-stage funding and up to twice as likely to become companies
profitable. In terms of quantum patents66, the United States and China lead in quantum technology patents, while Europe ranks third in all segments of quantum technologies. Despite the growth in quantum patents in Europe, the commercialisation of research results is insufficient, as much of the knowledge generated in research institutions is not commercially exploited.
In terms of access to finance, capital markets and the venture capital ecosystem are not sufficiently developed in the EU. For example, although venture capital funds exist, the number of funds worth more than €1 billion is much lower than in the United States. Specifically in quantum technologies, the level of direct investment in this type of company in the EU lags far behind that of the United States67.
Finally, Europe accounts for 25% of all quantum SMEs in the world, which is a similar percentage to that of the United States68. This data highlights the real possibilities for European and, ultimately, Spanish global leadership in the world market.
For all these reasons, the public sector must play an active role, stimulating market creation by supporting entrepreneurship and the growth of quantum companies, promoting innovation and sharing the risk associated with investments. Cross-cutting efforts have already been made in this regard, for example, with the approval of the Start-ups Act, which streamlines the creation of start-ups and improves tax conditions.
for investment. Similarly, it is important to promote the protection of innovative quantum solutions through patents, encouraging collaboration with specialised bodies such as the Spanish Patent and Trademark Office (OEPM) in order to foster innovation, protect the rights of creators and contribute to the country's economic development.
In this regard, the role of the State as advisor, guarantor and, ultimately, participant in quantum solutions will not only promote research into these technologies, but also break down the economic and informational barriers that prevent the results of such research from becoming business solutions for the future. For this reason, it is important to promote constructive dialogue between researchers and companies, facilitating the transfer of knowledge and technology, as well as facilitating access to financing for various quantum business initiatives.
Finally, this priority not only seeks to create a market, but also to strengthen industrialisation in the Spanish economy, promoting the development of a competitive business fabric integrated into European and international value chains.
Initiative 1.1: Use cases of applied industrial innovation
In order to create a quantum market, it is important to promote both supply and demand. Therefore, incentives will be provided for the development of applied industrial innovation use cases, understood as solutions with direct or quasi-direct application to the market. These use cases will aim to demonstrate the applicability of quantum technologies to existing needs, promoting interaction between researchers and the private sector and stimulating demand.
These use cases will cover the entire range of quantum technologies, prioritising those with greater technological maturity and commercial applicability, thereby optimising the impact of the investment.
Initiative 1.2: Networked incubators and test beds to promote Spanish quantum spin-offs
This initiative aims to identify challenges and promote three essential aspects for deploying the quantum business ecosystem: encouraging entrepreneurship, spreading business culture in the quantum entrepreneurial ecosystem, and ensuring the protection of quantum innovations.
The creation of a network of quantum spin-off incubation centres throughout the country is proposed, which will be accompanied by experimentation and testing banks (ǐssǐbsds). These incubators will have teams to identify spin-offs throughout Spain and will select those quantum solutions that have the most potential to become start-ups70.
The incubators will provide mentoring, advice and assistance to researcher-entrepreneurs in several ways. On the one hand, they will provide access to experimentation and testing environments (ǐssǐbsds) for testing hardware and software devices intended for quantum technology-based solutions, and on the other hand, they will provide personalised and crosscutting assistance in the field of entrepreneurship, from sharing essential business management concepts to the best financing mechanisms at each stage (pre-seed and seed, both national and European), business models and expert advice on patenting.
Initiative 1.3: Increasing venture capital investment in Spanish quantum startups and scale-ups
Through the financial facilities included in the PER-TE Chip and Next Tech programmes, as well as the CDTI's INNVIERTE funds, venture capital financing will be injected, in coordination with private investors, into Spanish quantum start-ups and scale-ups either directly or indirectly through venture capital or corporate funds. This initiative seeks to strengthen the quantum ecosystem by supporting the growth of companies already established in the sector. In addition, the aim is to attract funds specialising in high-risk investments and hardware to Spain, recognising that investments in hardware carry a higher risk and require greater amounts of capital. To this end, roadshows will also be organised throughout Spain to promote the financing opportunities offered by the Spanish Society for Technological Transformation (SETT).
In addition, incubators and other entities will be used to identify start-ups and scale-ups with high potential. In the case of incubators, experts in entrepreneurship and business growth will be able to support researcher-entrepreneurs in presenting their projects to public and private investors, facilitating their access to Series A and Series B financing rounds within a public-private co-investment framework.

# Initiative 1.4: Support for growth and internation : Born Global and European Champions

The aim of this initiative is to promote the internationalisation of Spanish quantum companies, making use of the unique opportunities offered by their European designation as critical technology and boosting their positioning in various European and national funding initiatives, such as those led by ICEX.
Experts from the network of incubation centres will carry out a "preparation for STEP (Strategic Technologies for Europe Platform)" exercise. In other words, they will promote the development of projects that may arise in the field of quantum technology and that can act as a lever in favour of European digital sovereignty. In this regard, they will assist these projects, whether national or even transnational, as much as possible in obtaining the European sovereignty seal offered by the STEP platform. By obtaining this seal, projects that demonstrate high strategic value for Europe's technological autonomy will gain priority visibility among public and private investors, as well as access to complementary funding through various European instruments.
On the other hand, the network of incubation centres will support spin-offs that are potentially suitable for the EIC Accelerator, facilitating a born global situation. In the case of more mature companies, their applications to other European initiatives such as STEP Scale-Up will be promoted.
Finally, companies that are leaders in their sector will be supported in presenting their projects to obtain funding through the European Tech Champions Initiative (ETCI) of the European Investment Fund via the Official Credit Institute (ICO).

# USE CASE

## Supply chain optimisation

Supply chains face constant challenges in inventory management, transport and logistics costs. Quantum computing allows multiple factors to be analysed simultaneously to improve planning, reduce delivery times and minimise disruptions. Its ability to process large volumes of data in real time makes supply chains more resilient and efficient in dynamic markets.

# Initiative 1.5: Towards a technological industrial policy, including quantum technologies

In the current context, quantum technologies are strategic and critical to our economic security. This approach would strengthen Spain's leadership in the development of its own quantum capabilities, aligning with European strategic interests.
The current scenario requires avoiding technological dependencies as far as possible in order to consolidate European technological sovereignty. Therefore, it is proposed to lay the foundations for an industrial policy on technologies with a direct impact on production, scaling and commercialisation in the quantum sector. This line of work will incorporate not only quantum technologies, but also other key technologies for the future, such as AI, neurotechnologies and biotechnology, strengthening the technological autonomy of Spain and Europe.
Another key aspect in promoting Spain's position in the global quantum market lies in studying internal regulations on export controls, especially in the case of dual-use products. Thus, in accordance with the principle of non-proliferation, Spain is committed to keeping its regulations on such controls up to date, thereby enabling relations with third countries to be conducted in a secure, agile and flexible manner.
2
Priority 2: Algorithms and technological convergence between AI and quantum computing
The convergence between Artificial Intelligence (AI) and quantum computing75is redefining the technological landscape, driving advances in algorithms and data processing. Quantum algorithms are based on the principles of quantum mechanics, offering new computational strategies with transformative potential. The execution of these algorithms on quantum computers will, in a future with fault-tolerant quantum computers, allow us to tackle problems that are currently inaccessible to classical systems, such as the factorisation of large numbers or the simulation of large molecules and materials, with exponentially greater efficiency, or problems such as optimisation in unstructured data environments or the simulation of financial models.
Currently, given that fault-tolerant computing is a medium- and long-term challenge, it is equally important to demonstrate quantum advantages in intermediate-sized, error-prone quantum processors (NISQ). In this field, hybrid quantum-classical algorithms offer useful opportunities in both scientific problems (simulation of complex physical and chemical models) and generalist problems (quantum optimisation, simulation of complex probability distributions, etc.). For this reason, these cutting-edge technological challenges are already receiving funding from the European Union.
However, the adoption of quantum computing in the industrial sector does not begin with the processors described above, as the industry already needs solutions with a return on investment and production implementation in the very short term. In this context, quantum-inspired computing or quantum-inspired computing is emerging as a new paradigm in algorithmics, using the principles and techniques of quantum mechanics to solve complex problems without the need for a real quantum computer in various fields, such as simulation, finance, risk, etc. The procedures and pipelines adopted can later migrate to purely quantum solutions.
Furthermore, the impact of the convergence between AI and quantum computing could extend to multiple strategic sectors. For example, in the pharmaceutical industry, quantum computing will enable more accurate molecular simulations, reducing costs and time in the development of new drugs; in finance, quantum simulation and quantum inspiration offer advanced portfolio optimisation and risk modelling; while in logistics and energy, it enables more efficient solutions. Quantum inspiration methods can also be used to compact AI models. It also has the potential to significantly reduce energy consumption in the future in the training and operation of AI models, in line with green transition objectives.
In this context, Quantum Machine Learning (QML) emerges as a possible discipline within this convergence with the idea of integrating quantum computing with machine learning . Although still in the development phase, QML has already been the subject of numerous academic studies76 that analyse its fundamentals and projections from both quantum and classical approaches, consolidating its role as a possible fundamental pillar in the future of hybrid computing. Additionally, among other benefits, quantum computing could also help shorten the training and hyperparameterisation phases of artificial intelligence (AI) models77 . Equally important is the application of AI to the creation and operation of quantum technologies, where ML is important in tasks such as control and operation design and error correction code implementation, which are essential for scaling these technologies.
Furthermore, Quantum Cloud Computing78will democratise access to quantum capabilities without the need for proprietary hardware, allowing industries and research centres to experiment with quantum algorithms in remote environments. However, not all computational tasks will be more efficient on a quantum computer, making a hybrid approach essential. In fact, EuroHPC-based initiatives are already integrating quantum computers with classical supercomputers to maximise the performance of both technologies. Ultimately, as the OECD mentions in its report Quantum technologies policy primer79, hybrid solutions will remain essential to take full advantage of quantum computing and prepare for its integration into the global digital infrastructure.
Initiative 2.1: Ensuring access to quantum computing capabilities
Quantum computing is key in the field of quantum and quantum-inspired algorithms, among others. For this reason, the Spanish Government launched its first national programme in 2022 with the creation of the Quantum Spain consortium, which brings together 27 research institutions from 14 autonomous communities, including the CSIC, BSC-CNS and 15 public universities. The project has achieved significant milestones with the launch of the first 100% European-made quantum computer and the development of three quantum emulators, fulfilling one of the milestones of the EU's Digital Decade 2030. Quantum Spain has developed 20 research projects on quantum algorithms, which have already resulted in more than 60 international publications. It has also launched the TalentQ platform for training and talent generation through seminars, workshops and a support infrastructure with tutorials.
These results have generated and strengthened a national R&D ecosystem in quantum computing, which deserves to be continued. To this end, the development of a STEP project will be studied with the aim of continuing these activities in the period 2026–2029. This continuity will include the extension of the roadmap for quantum computing facilities, in line with the new RES Strategic Plan and taking advantage of the opportunities offered by the EuroHPC Joint Undertaking's HPC and quantum computing infrastructure plan.
This will facilitate access to quantum computing capabilities for the research ecosystem, Spanish companies (both SMEs and large companies) and public research organisations, enabling them to continue developing relevant use cases for strategic sectors and in the field of research.

# Initiative 2.2: Use cases in algorithmics and convergence between AI and quantum

In parallel with the development of the use cases described in priority 1, funding will be provided for those that promote convergence between AI and quantum technologies in order to demonstrate the usability of this convergence.
These use cases may also lead to the creation of more accurate and efficient AI models through the processing of large volumes of data and the optimisation of parallel calculations or for the specialisation of models, as well as their compression. Use cases may also be implemented for industrial research applications in areas such as cybersecurity, advanced materials modelling, logistics optimisation, or healthcare applications such as drug discovery.
Furthermore, given the advances in proof-of-concept and quantum and quantum-inspired algorithms, there is still a need to find and demonstrate quantum advantages in applications of both quantum computing and other quantum-inspired alternatives. These advantages must be indisputable, demonstrating use cases that drive market-ready applications with high impact in strategic sectors and that cannot be improved upon by other conventional alternatives, including developments based purely on machine learning.
Finally, the development of quantum algorithms will also be encouraged, following the line opened up by Quantum Spain, optimising their adaptation to different hardware platforms, strengthening quantum software with more efficient libraries, working environments and compilers to improve their execution and application to different sectors.
The industrial adoption of quantum technologies requires solutions with a return and short-term production.
3
Priority 3: Make Spain a benchmark in quantum communications
Quantum communications represent a disruptive advance in data transmission security, enabling the creation of communication networks with unprecedented levels of protection.
Spain already has an ecosystem of excellence in this field, backed by leading institutions such as the Spanish National Research Council (CSIC), the Institute of Photonic Sciences (ICFO), the Canary Islands Institute of Astrophysics (IAC) and the National Institute of Aerospace Technology (INTA), which have made significant advances in photonics, quantum cryptography and quantum key distribution (QKD). In addition, there are strategic projects at the national level, such as the Complementary Quantum Communication Plan (PCCC)80 , in which the CSIC and multiple academic entities from six autonomous communities are participating. The country is also involved in European initiatives such as EuroQuantum Communication Infrastructure (EuroQ-CISPAIN), Quantum Secure Networks Partnership (QSNP) and Quantum Internet Alliance (QIA), derived from the Quantum Flagship and funded by the European Commission, which seek to consolidate a robust and secure infrastructure for quantum communications in Europe. RedIRIS also provides an infrastructure to support the development and experimentation of these technologies.
The development of quantum communications81 is based on two fundamental technologies:
- Quantum photonics enables the generation and manipulation of individual or entangled photons, which are the basis for encoding and transmitting quantum information through precise control of quantum coherence against propagation channel noise. It also enables the use of advanced photon detectors, which can read quantum states without altering them, ensuring signal reception. In addition, optical components preserve the integrity of the information during transmission.
- Integrated photonics facilitates the miniaturisation and scalability of quantum communication systems, enabling their deployment in complex infrastructures. Quantum random number generators (QRNGs) are also used to improve security.
Despite its enormous potential, the development of quantum communications faces key challenges. First, greater investment in national quantum infrastructures is required to ensure integration with European networks and enhance interoperability, which also requires defining open standards and developing regulatory frameworks to ensure the security of quantum transmissions. Secondly, although there are multiple initiatives underway, a unified plan is needed to optimise resources and efforts and create synergies, in line with international standards defined in standardisation forums. Thirdly, it will be essential to strengthen knowledge transfer to the business sector to accelerate the adoption of quantum communications and facilitate interoperability with traditional infrastructures.
Likewise, the development of quantum communications also requires the establishment of international standards and regulations. Interoperability is key to the integration of QKD networks into existing infrastructures, which implies defining open standards that allow for a smooth and secure connection.
Overcoming these challenges brings our societies closer to the development of the Quantum Internet, a network for the interconnection of quantum devices. These quantum networks will facilitate the expansion of quantum cryptography over greater distances, consolidating a global ecosystem of ultra-secure communications. In the future, they will also enable the implementation of secure distributed quantum computing models, integrating quantum devices and classical supercomputers and extending the reach of other devices such as quantum sensors.
USE CASE
Optimisation of smart grids (Smart grids operation)
The balance and efficient distribution of energy in smart grids are challenges that quantum computing can effectively address.
Using techniques such as quantum annealing, it analyses large volumes of data to predict demand and optimise resource use, facilitating the integration of renewable energies and reducing waste.
In the context of energy transition, this technology enables more flexible and efficient systems, maximising existing infrastructure and reducing long-term operating costs.
Spain is in a privileged position82 in the development of quantum communications, with consolidated experience in quantum photonics. However, to take full advantage of this, it is necessary to establish a governance structure that facilitates collaboration and accelerates the implementation of key infrastructures, as well as promoting the transition to a quantum cryptography environment.
Initiative 3.1: Collaboration between centres of excellence in quantum communications
To address these challenges and consolidate Spain as a leader in quantum communications, the creation of a Quantum Communications Hub is proposed. This centre of excellence will bring together the country's leading scientific and technological institutions, facilitating applied research and its transfer to the industrial sector.
The Quantum Communications Hub will be structured around three main lines of action:
- Use cases in quantum communications. Two key cases will be included: the deployment of optical ground stations (OGS) in Madrid, Barcelona and Galicia to connect with the satellite mission, which will complement those already in place at the Teide Observatory (IAC), and the development of terrestrial QKD links between Madrid and Barcelona, together with the creation of new strategic nodes in Spain, such as links between CESGA and the University of Vigo or the extension of the MadQCI quantum ring to the INTA facilities.
- R&D in photonics for quantum communication to achieve advances in quantum information detection, processing and transmission technology through quantum security protocols, quantum memories and repeaters, quantum communication space systems, integrated photonic circuits and the integration of quantum networks with classical infrastructures, including the combinationof quantum and post-quantum cryptographic protocols.
- Training and dissemination. Training programmes for researchers and professionals, as well as initiatives to raise awareness in the business ecosystem (e.g. seminars for industry, training in specialised laboratories or support for entrepreneurship).
Initiative 3.2: Development of satellite missions for quantum key distribution
The Ministry of Science, Innovation and Universities, in collaboration with the CDTI, and within the scope of the PERTE Aerospace programme, has launched two initiatives for the development of satellite prototypes for secure quantum communications. The first initiative involves the design, integration and ground validation of a payload system and its associated ground segment for quantum key distribution (QKD) from a geostationary orbit (GEO). The second action focuses on the development and ground validation of a similar system from a low orbit (LEO).
It should be noted that the geostationary orbit mission represents a global milestone, as it is the first initiative of its kind, reinforcing Spain's leading position in the field of secure quantum communications and space cybersecurity. This project is fully aligned with the EuroQCI initiative, promoted by the European Commission, which aims to establish a pan-European quantum infrastructure for ultra-secure communications.
Also in line with these European initiatives, ICFO is collaborating on the Quango (Quantum Communications with NanoSatellites and 5G protocols) project to develop a constellation of nanosatellites with 5G communication capabilities.
In addition, multiple institutions, including INTA, CSIC, ICFO, IAC, UPM and the University of Vigo, continue to promote the development of these innovative key distribution technologies with space systems through various lines of activity. These include promoting Spanish participation in European QKD initiatives in space (both in the IRIS2 system and the SAGA project), driving forward the completion of Spanish missions already underway, exploring their integration into these programmes, and fostering technological innovation in low-cost QKD space missions, including nano- and micro-satellites.
Specifically, INTA, with the participation of the various institutions mentioned above, is promoting these developments from a dual approach, working on quantum communications space systems with a view to their application in the field of defence and security. With this approach, the following initiatives are being carried out:
Identification of critical quantum photonic technologies for quantum communications space systems, developing and implementing plans for the validation and space qualification of these technologies, thereby increasing their technological maturity (Technology Readiness Level, TRL). In this way, they will reach at least the
minimum TRL5 level required by the European Cooperation for Space Standardisation (ECSS) standards, adopted by the industry and various European space agencies.
- The Q-ANSER mission, scheduled for launch in early 2029, stands out as an in-orbit demonstrator of a quantum key distribution link between low-cost satellites.
- Development of a QKD system in uplink configuration, which poses a significant challenge due to its higher losses and lower key rates than the standard downlink configuration, but makes it possible to substantially reduce the price per key, opening up a niche market.
USE CASE
Optimisation of manufacturing processes (Manufacturing process optimisation)
Industrial production processes require constant optimisation to improve efficiency and reduce costs.
Quantum computing allows multiple combinations of resources and times to be analysed simultaneously, minimising interruptions and waste. This is key in large-scale manufacturing, accelerating the transition to more sustainable and efficient production models.

# Initiative 3.3: Addressing challenges in quantum and optical communications

Beyond key distribution, quantum communication faces significant challenges in terms of scalability and application to multiple uncontrolled environments. For example, atmospheric transmission in the presence of turbulence, both in space and in metropolitan environments, and the optimisation of entangled photon detection. With the aim of resolving these challenges, the Canary Islands Institute of Astrophysics (IAC) and other entities will continue to be promoted.
As an example of relevant actions, the IAC has launched the IAClink infrastructure, within the framework of the Strategic Plan for the Canary Islands Observatories (2025-2028)83 to develop satellite payloads, create integrated photonics systems for atmospheric turbulence compensation, and fixed or transportable ground stations for quantum key reception in GEO and LEO orbits, as mentioned in the previous initiative. In the context of random number generation, the CMB-Bell experiment, led by the IAC and the University of Vienna, will continue. This experiment seeks to test the limits of quantum entanglement and non-locality using Cosmic Microwave Background (CMB) radiation.
4
Priority 4: Demonstrate the impact of quantum sensor s and metrology
Quantum sensors have the ability to measure physical quantities with very high precision and sensitivity, greater than traditional sensors and with lower power requirements, even reaching the limit of a single photon. In some areas of application, the development of quantum sensors is already at a pre-commercial stage that will not only optimise current processes but also enable new applications that were previously unfeasible. However, much research and innovation is still needed to fully exploit the potential of quantum sensing in areas such as biology, medical imaging, navigation and defence, among others.
One of the most promising fields for the implementation of quantum measurement is the use of nitrogen-vacancy centres in diamond (NV)84 . These crystalline defects have long quantum coherence times and extraordinary sensitivity to magnetic fields, making them an ideal platform for high-precision measurements. Due to their biocompatibility, stability at room temperature and ability to operate in extreme conditions, NV-based solid-state magnetometers are being explored, among other fields, for use in non-invasive biomedical imaging, as they use both in vitro and in vivo techniques, which could enable, for example, the early detection of neurological and cardiovascular diseases85. In addition, it could be used to reconstruct complete maps of terrestrial vector magnetic fields for better navigation and georeferencing based on magnetic anomaly maps.
Other types of sensors of industrial interest include quantum gravimeters, useful in detecting fossil fuel deposits and water deposits and cavitation regions that compromise civil structures, or functionalised optomechanical quantum sensors, capable of detecting compounds at the level of a few molecules.
Within the defence and security sector, there is particular interest in advancing the development of radio frequency sensors, such as future quantum radars, capable of improving conventional radars, as well as optronic sensors necessary for sensitivity and resolution even in atmospheres with very low visibility. Another priority is to achieve efficient navigation without GNSS based on quantum inertial sensors for positioning, navigation and synchronisation, underwater detection and anomaly mapping, and reliable microatomic clocks for accurate positioning. To this end, it is necessary to develop compact multifunctional inertial measurement units for quantum inertial systems (or hybridisation with classical accelerometers and gyroscopes).
It will therefore be important to develop quantum sensors for use in real-world environments, ensuring their resistance to environmental factors such as temperature and acceleration for integration on board platforms. In addition, promising atomic clocks could bring improvements of orders of magnitude in terms of frequency stability and compactness compared to standard designs.
For its part, the integration of quantum metrology from laboratories to industrial environments presents several technical challenges. These include operating conditions such as low temperatures, ultra-high vacuum and exposure to intense electromagnetic fields. Furthermore, the miniaturisation and integration of these technologies into existing systems are significant challenges that must be addressed synergistically with other efforts in integrated optics and microelectronics manufacturing.
Quantum sensing, as mentioned above, is, together with quantum communication, one of the two disciplines with the greatest social impact in the short term. In Spain, quantum sensing is a strategic issue, addressed by multiple public and private entities. Among them, the ICFO stands out in areas such as the detection of magnetic fields with atom clouds, the CSIC with the development of optomechanical quantum sensors, the Centre for Materials Physics (CFMUPV/EHU-CSIC) with the creation of inertial sensors for navigation without GPS, using levitated particles and optomechanics, and the quantum sensorics hub in Bizkaia, associated with the laboratories of the EHU Quantum Centre, the CFM and Tecnalia. Likewise, the University of Murcia, Carlos III University in Madrid and Arquimea Research in Tenerife have carried out important studies in this field.
To facilitate widespread adoption of these technologies, it is essential to begin testing their integration and disseminating more information about their benefits for industry. This will enable them to be considered in production processes, thereby increasing competitiveness. It is essential to support this integration with validation and certification tests that follow recognised standards and ensure the metrological traceability of measurements.
Initiative 4.1: Promoting the development of quantum standards at the Spanish Metrology Centre
The development of an experimental environment in quantum sensors and metrology will have a positive impact on the Spanish economy, and it is therefore proposed that the Spanish Metrology Centre (CEM) work on the development of an optical frequency quantum clock based on ion traps, an advance that will position Spain at the forefront of high-precision metrology, laying the foundations for a new generation of time and frequency standards.
Furthermore, the development of innovative electrical and pressure quantum patterns will enable alignment with international standards in advanced metrology. Investment in infrastructure for photonics and
quantum optomechanics will strengthen the CEM's capacity to develop cutting-edge solutions that are essential for the advancement of emerging technologies and their integration into industrial and commercial applications and calibration.
Initiative 4.2: Promoting the use of the ROA's quantum clock
It is proposed that the Royal Institute and the Navy Observatory (ROA) work on the construction and implementation of an optical network quantum clock based on neutral strontium atoms. This clock, which is currently in research and development, also represents the cutting edge in time measurement, offering unprecedented accuracies of the order of 10-18 seconds, which exceed the best caesium-based atomic clocks by two orders of magnitude. This means that it would take billions of years to lose a second using technologies with this precision.
This initiative to promote the use of the ROA quantum clock consists of two mechanisms. On the one hand, it includes the connection to the CEM quantum clock, necessary for its synchronisation, using fibre optic communications networks within the framework of the Spanish Academic and Research Network (RedIRIS), managed by the public entity Red.es, capable of accurately propagating time and frequency (T/F) signals; On the other hand, it includes the development of dual use cases for testing in the defence sector and, additionally, in civil applications through the ROA, with special attention to the emergency, logistics and transport sectors, among others. The development of dual use cases is part of the European trend to strengthen its defence capabilities and increase its technological autonomy.
This quantum clock will also have applications in satellite navigation, where the ultra-precision of quantum clocks can improve the accuracy of global positioning (GNSS), helping to complete the supply chain of the European GNSS infrastructure Galileo, strengthening its strategic autonomy, and benefiting all its applications in the real economy, from logistics to autonomous vehicles. In telecommunications, these clocks enable
precise synchronisation of fibre optic networks and high-speed data transmission systems. Furthermore, in the scientific field, quantum clocks have expanded the possibilities in geophysics by measuring variations in the Earth's gravitational field with great sensitivity, allowing fluctuations in altitude to be detected with applications in sea level monitoring, earthquake prediction and geological resource exploration.
USE CASE
New defence materials through AI and quantum simulations (New defence materials through AI and quantum simulations)
The development of advanced materials in the defence sector has found a revolutionary tool in quantum computing. Thanks to its ability to model molecular structures with unprecedented precision, it is possible to design lighter, stronger composites with advanced properties, such as greater thermal or electromagnetic protection.
These advances also have applications in the aerospace industry and the construction of high-security infrastructure, reducing development times and improving production efficiency.
Quantum sensing represents an opportunity for the defence and security sector and it will be important to advance its operation in real environments.

# Initiative 4.3: Use cases for quantum sensors and metrology for strategic sectors

In parallel with the development of use cases described in priority 1 and in the previous initiative, this initiative will promote the experimental development of practical use cases for quantum metrology and sensors applied to industries such as health, manufacturing, logistics, energy, information security, the environment, etc., with a view to demonstrating the usefulness of ultra-precision. These applications will have a significant impact in areas as diverse as medical imaging (less energy-intensive or less invasive diagnostics), the detection of components and pathogens at the molecular level (useful in biomedicine and defence), and inertial navigation without GNSS positioning. These use cases are intended to help overcome some of the challenges identified in this priority, such as on-board platform integration, miniaturisation, and testing the performance of these technologies under the appropriate operating conditions.
The proposal is to explore use cases by developing applications at intermediate TRLs in these and other areas, promoting the technology transfer of these sensors to industry through proof-of-concept projects and public-private cooperation, in line with European strategies in this field. It is hoped that solutions based on these technologies can be demonstrated in order to expand market demand. All of this will lay the foundations for the development of business hubs and start-ups with solid business models, generating high added-value centres in different regions of Spain.
5
Priority 5: Strengthen privacy and confidentiality of information in the post-quantum world
Quantum computing poses a challenge to the privacy and protection of our personal data and to information security in general, as it could compromise current cryptography. In fact, asymmetric encryption algorithms will be the most affected, as they will lose their effectiveness, facilitating attacks on sensitive communications and information systems on the Internet. This represents a serious risk, especially for critical infrastructure, national security and even digital sovereignty. In other words, it is not only a national risk, but also an international one.
The responsible innovation approach involves not only regulation, but also understanding whether the quantum revolution will also require a thorough review of regulatory frameworks to ensure the continued protection of privacy and personal data, trade secrets and other data rights. The Spanish Government already published the first Charter of Digital Rights in 202186 as a guideline for the country's digital transformation process. However, it does not clearly address the impact of quantum technologies on digital rights.
To mitigate the risk of the quantum threat and ensure information security and privacy, it is also necessary to fund and develop quantum-resistant (QR) systems, primarily by implementing hybrid solutions based on post-quantum cryptography (PQC). The latter comprise classical algorithms specifically designed to resist attacks from quantum computers, which could compromise current encryption systems based on mathematical problems such as integer factorisation or discrete logarithms.
We are currently in a transition phase towards post-quantum cryptography, but this must be done in a structured manner, with a special emphasis on its adoption in public administrations and critical infrastructures, and without sacrificing the stability and continuity of systems. Furthermore, the complexity of migrating the
extensive set of information systems that rely on classical cryptography and acknowledge the effort that this will entail. The standardisation of reliable post-quantum algorithms is one of the fundamental pillars for achieving this transition. However, there are currently only three post-quantum encryption standards approved by the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST)87 . Finally, it should be noted that for a successful transition, it is essential to promote effective technology transfer, from research in quantum and post-quantum cryptography to its commercial application, ensuring that scientific and technological advances are translated into concrete solutions for the industrial sector.
The European Union is also working on a strategy that is expected to drive this transition in Europe, including the implementation of post-quantum cryptography within the scope of the NIS2 Directive88 and other legislative initiatives, such as the Cybersecurity Regulation and the Cyber Resilience Regulation. This presents an opportunity to boost joint production at EU level of chips and other specific components for post-quantum cryptography.
Initiative 5.1: Post-quantum privacy, a new digital right
To develop Spain's Digital Rights Charter, the Spanish Government has launched the Digital Rights Programme, with the aim of studying the relationship between rights and technology and drawing up proposals for digital development that respects fundamental rights, serves people and society, and improves the productivity and competitiveness of the economy. Within the framework of this Programme:
- The relationship between quantum technologies and their impact on fundamental rights, particularly privacy and data protection, will be studied.
- Recommendations will be drawn up to promote the development of quantum technologies and respect for fundamental rights at national and international level, particularly within the European Union, the Council of Europe and UNESCO.
- Collaboration will take place in the dissemination, outreach and education on quantum technologies and their opportunities and risks, promoting safe and responsible use, bringing the debate closer to citizens and ensuring trust and transparency in their deployment.
Initiative 5.2: Promoting innovative public procurement and innovation
Various measures will be implemented to promote the transfer of knowledge from research to commercial applications in order to facilitate the adoption of post-quantum cryptography technologies in key national sectors. One of the tools for promoting the development of advanced solutions from the public sector is Innovative Public Procurement (IPP). The National Cybersecurity Institute (INCIBE)89 , which is using this tool to develop post-quantum solutions, will share lessons learned and best practices so that it can be used by many more entities in the public sector in their transition to post-quantum cryptography. The development of the two satellite missions for quantum key distribution described above in Initiative 3.2, promoted by the CDTI, has also been an innovative public procurement programme, under which the two satellite prototypes for LEO and GEO orbits for quantum key distribution (QKD) have been purchased.
Initiative 5.3: Support for the transition to post-quantum cryptography
The National Cryptology Centre (CCN) and INCIBE will play a key role in supporting the post-quantum transition of the public and private sector ecosystems, respectively, especially in the case of critical infrastructures. This work will take the form of technical and regulatory documents, specifically guidelines and reference frameworks to guide the adoption of post-quantum cryptography, in line with EU guidelines.
Awareness campaigns will also be carried out to explain the quantum risks to cryptography and the need to adapt and promote training programmes for company personnel that delve into the implementation of post-quantum algorithms and the adaptation of communications, backup and data storage systems.
In addition, the development of use cases in post-quantum encryption will be promoted through pilot programmes, whether public or private, that can identify the key databases and infrastructures to be protected, design a transition plan and implement it.
Finally, the Cybersecurity Operations Centre (COCS), which reports to the Spanish Digital Administration Agency, intends to strengthen government cybersecurity with a catalogue of services. In this context, the incorporation of cross-cutting managed security services is being evaluated that can provide a layer of what is known as 'quanǐum-sars' through tools for the centralised management of encryption keys and quantum security proxies. Likewise, the Technical Security Instruction (ITS) on 'Cryptology for use in the ENS' is being promoted, the purpose of which is to serve as a guide and regulate authorised cryptographic mechanisms and their application in security products and services.

# Initiative 5.4: National certification in cybersecurity for quantum products

Certification in the field of cybersecurity for quantum products is essential to ensure not only their secure and effective integration into the European digital infrastructure, but also to support Spanish start-ups in the commercialisation of these innovative quantum products. To achieve this, it is essential to align this national certification with the guidelines and standards established by the European Union.
By focusing on these certification processes and adhering to European guidelines, Spanish startups will find it easier to develop quantum products that meet the highest safety and quality standards. This promotes their entry and competitiveness in the European market, while also contributing to the strengthening of technological sovereignty and national cyber resilience in the field of quantum technologies. With this objective in mind, the CCN will articulate the criteria, methodology and evaluation procedures necessary to validate and certify the security provided by products based on quantum technologies.

## USE CASE

Management of empty containers at maritime ports
Ports face a constant problem with the movement of empty containers, generating logistical inefficiencies and high costs. empty containers, generating logistical inefficiencies and high costs.
Quantum computing helps manage their redistribution through combinatorial optimisation algorithms that identify more efficient routes and minimise unnecessary journeys. Dynamic allocation based on real-time demand not only reduces operating costs but also lowers the carbon footprint of the port sector.
6
Priority 6: Strengthen capabilities: infrastructure, research and talent
In order to consolidate Spain as a benchmark in the manufacture and deployment of quantum technologies, it is essential to strengthen and expand existing infrastructure, especially clean rooms and research laboratories. To date, €17.5 million has been allocated within the PERTE Chip programme to strengthen the Micronanofabs network, ensuring open and competitive access for researchers and companies. Within this framework, it is essential to strengthen key centres such as the National Microelectronics Centre (notably the IMB-CNM-CSIC in Barcelona, the IMNCSIC in Madrid and the IMSE-CSIC-US in Seville), which works on superconducting and semiconductor quantum devices and on integrated photonics platforms applied to quantum computing. Also noteworthy is the Institute of Optoelectronic Systems and Microelectronics (ISOM-UPM in Madrid), which focuses on quantum key distribution (QKD) systems and quantum security sorǐwars, together with the Nanophotonics Technology Centre (NTC-UPV in Valencia), which develops microwave-optical interfaces-optical interfaces for qubit conversion and Photonic Integrated Circuits (PIC). This could provide greater capacity for companies in the sector to design and manufacture quantum and enabling technologies, as well as increasing the weight of the Spanish ecosystem when applying for European calls for proposals.
On the other hand, the progress of traditional semiconductors has reached physical limits that slow down their evolution, increasing the need for alternative technologies. Although quantum chips will not completely replace classical ones, they offer significant advantages in optimisation and simulation. The key would lie in the integration of quantum and classical computing, driven by investments in pilot lines for quantum chips within the Chips Act90 (Quantum) and the PERTE Chip. In this regard, Spain is betting on various quantum technologies, including superconductors and annealing, used in quantum computing and optimisation; ion traps and neutral atoms, which offer high fidelity in individual qubits; quantum photonics and NV centres in diamonds, essential for precision sensors and secure communications; and quantum semiconductors, which allow for easier integration with conventional technologies. To advance in this field, it is essential to promote the
research and development of innovative, accessible and scalable solutions that enable sustained and competitive growth of national quantum capabilities.
To consolidate an advanced quantum infrastructure, it is also important to integrate these infrastructures with supercomputing and chip manufacturing centres, reducing technological dependence on third countries in the production of critical chips. This will accelerate technology transfer, turning research into commercial products, driving innovation in quantum manufacturing and facilitating industrial adaptation to new technologies.
Finally, the development of these technologies requires highly qualified professionals, which demands specialised educational programmes that integrate computer science, quantum mechanics and mathematics at all levels of the curriculum. Interdisciplinary collaboration, practical training in real-world environments and academic incentives are key to attracting and retaining international talent. In addition, it is crucial to incorporate an ethical and social perspective into training, ensuring the responsible and beneficial development of quantum technologies.
To consolidate Spain as a benchmark in the manufacture and deployment of quantum technologies, it is essential to strengthen and expand existing infrastructure.
Initiative 6.1: Strengthening clean room and laboratory infrastructure and
The creation and improvement of clean rooms and laboratories specialising in sensor technology, quantum metrology and quantum communications will be co-financed, promoting equitable access for the entire Spanish ecosystem. This initiative will be developed in collaboration with public entities, ensuring that the infrastructure is used efficiently and strategically. To this end, a detailed analysis of existing facilities and regional needs will be carried out in order to encourage the creation of clusters throughout the country. The possibility of implementing a monitoring system to track their development and optimise their use will be evaluated.
This drive to create specialised industrial clusters is expected to foster an innovative ecosystem that attracts highly qualified companies and professionals and provides an effective connection with the incubators and ǐssǐbsds mentioned in priority 1, promoting collaboration between different actors and strengthening the development of quantum technologies in Spain.
Initiative 6.2: Maintenance and improvement of infrastructures for fundamental and applied research
The capabilities of the Spanish Supercomputing Network (RES) will be maintained in order to continue working on quantum simulation and the co-design of quantum hardware and software integrated with classical supercomputing. The capabilities of the centres integrated into the Micronanofabs network will also be strengthened, especially the CSIC's National Microelectronics Centre in Barcelona (IMB-CNM-CSIC).
In addition, the facilities of the Carlos III Health Institute (ISCIII) will be interconnected using quantum technologies to accelerate molecular simulation work in the development of new drugs and improve DNA sequencing.
Initiative 6.3: Promotion of ancillary industries and enabl technologies
Following a search for Spanish suppliers of enabling technologies and potential ancillary industries, the needs in the value chains for the design, manufacture and deployment of quantum technologies will be identified.
Support will be provided for the transition and adaptation of identified auxiliary and enabling technology companies, facilitating their integration into European consortia and entities working to strengthen these European value chains, advancing along the path to European technological sovereignty.
Initiative 6.4: Pilot lines for quantum chips and s within the Chips JU
The Chips Joint Undertaking (Chips JU) has launched two calls for proposals to set up pilot lines with the aim of accelerating the most mature quantum chip production technologies that are close to manufacturing processes. These include photonics, superconductors, semiconductors, diamonds, neutral atoms and trapped ions. The aim is to achieve a twofold objective:
- On the one hand, it aims to promote the development of 100% European quantum chips and, in doing so, contribute to Spain's strategic autonomy in the coming decades.
- On the other hand, it also aims to strengthen the role of Spanish entities in the sector that are at the forefront of Europe in the aforementioned quantum chip manufacturing technologies.
Initiative 6.5: Reinforcement with the basic and applied research programmes " "
Through the State Plan for Scientific and Technical Research and Innovation (PEICTI), competitive projects will continue to be funded in all areas of knowledge, including quantum technologies, at different TRLs. The State Research Agency (AEI) will continue with its aid programmes, both for basic research projects and for public-private cooperation projects in the field of quantum technologies, and will maintain specific calls for the recruitment of human resources, which to date have enabled the development of scientific careers in the quantum field.
For its part, also within the framework of the PEICTI, the CDTI will continue its innovation aid programmes, so that the financing of initiatives related to quantum technologies can be addressed.
USE CASE
Urban traffic optimisation
Traffic congestion in cities can be alleviated through the use of quantum algorithms that optimise traffic flow in real time.
By analysing multiple variables such as traffic lights, traffic flows and unforeseen events, these systems can reduce waiting times, lower fuel consumption and improve urban mobility in a more sustainable and efficient manner.

# Initiative 6.6: Study of new profiles in professional training and education and new educational programmes

Training needs in the quantum industry will be studied, identifying profiles and assessing their fit within the vocational training system. Within this framework, the feasibility and need for a specific profile of laboratory technicians and/or experimentalists for the implementation and development of quantum technologies will be analysed, with a particular focus on hardware, microelectronics and mechanics.
Likewise, synergies between specialised training programmes at universities and research institutions will be strengthened, integrating areas such as computer science, quantum physics and mathematics. Collaboration with companies and practical training in real environments will be explored, considering the use of instruments such as micro-credentials. In addition, the inclusion of content throughout the educational cycle will be promoted to achieve a solid understanding of the social and ethical impacts of quantum technologies. Finally, the promotion of STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics) vocations will be encouraged, especially from a gender equality perspective, with the aim of attracting more students to these disciplines and ensuring a workforce prepared for digital transformation and the growing demand for experts in this sector.
7

## Priority 7: A solid, coordinated Spanish quantum ecosystem that is a leader in the EU

At the European level, there is a certain lack of coordination among Member States, putting the EU's digital sovereignty and economic security at risk. Without a clear strategy to strengthen collaboration and the development of shared infrastructure, Europe could fall behind other global players that are already consolidating their quantum ecosystems. However, important steps have been taken towards greater coordination, such as the European Quantum Technologies Pact91 , which seeks to strengthen cooperation between countries and promote the joint development of capabilities, ensuring European competitiveness in this field.
The quantum ecosystem in Spain is evolving rapidly, although it still faces challenges to its consolidation. The fragmentation of this ecosystem hinders the growth in demand for these technologies, the creation of consortia, access to European and international funding, and the generation of synergies between researchers, start-ups, large companies, and institutions. This lack of integration limits competitiveness and reduces Spain's ability to become a leader in these technologies in the EU.
To take full advantage of the opportunities offered by quantum technology, it is essential to build a solid and well-coordinated ecosystem. Greater knowledge and specialisation in this field will facilitate the identification of synergies and the generation of new use cases in the Spanish economy. In addition, a collaborative framework that optimises resources and strengthens cooperation between national and European agents will accelerate the transition from fundamental research to commercial application. The creation of strategic consortia, access to funding and the strengthening of infrastructure will be key to positioning Spain as a leading player in the quantum revolution and ensuring its competitiveness on the global stage.

# Initiative 7.1: An entity that brings together the entire quantum ecosystem

The creation of a meeting place will be promoted, which may be a non-profit association, acting as a strategic partner of the Spanish Government, Autonomous Communities and Local Entities, with the active participation of research groups, universities, research centres, start-ups and companies. This space could be the reference point for the national quantum landscape, publishing annual reports on progress in the deployment of quantum technologies in the economy and their impact on society and on its activities. In addition, it will be able to organise events and outreach activities, in coordination with the Digital Rights Observatory with regard to citizens, and will support the distribution of public funds, as well as promoting and accompanying entities in accessing European or international funding, leading consortia or forming part of them.
This meeting space could also have an international plan that includes, in addition to the above, the organisation of and participation in quantum technology standardisation processes, such as ETSI in quantum key distribution, ISO/IEC JTC 1/WG 14 in quantum computing, or standardisation at the International Bureau of Weights and Measures (BIPM) or the International System (SI) of units for quantum sensors, or ETSI and EURAMET for quantum metrology. It should also participate in governance and regulatory dialogues at national, European and international level. It is important to note that this plan will include tracking initiatives by other EU Member States in quantum technologies that may represent a strategic, business or collaboration opportunity for Spanish researchers or start-ups, for example, by closing gaps in international value chains.

# Initiative 7.2: Mapping the quantum ecosystem

To foster collaboration and unify an ecosystem that is still fragmented, a preliminary mapping of the quantum ecosystem in Spain will be carried out. This will make it possible to identify all the actors involved — companies, universities and technology centres —, projects under development and quantum initiatives, and monitor their evolution in the short and medium term.
Successive updates to the mapping, as well as its availability to the general public and industry, will be carried out by the aforementioned entity that brings together the entire ecosystem. In this way, the map will function as a centralised repository of key information on the traceability of the Spanish quantum ecosystem, available infrastructure, ongoing projects, scientific publications and training opportunities.

## It is essential to build a solid and well-coordinated ecosystem to position Spain as a leading player in the quantum revolution.

USE CASE
Optimisation of packaging in containers (Erfficisnť packing in bins)
Efficiency in product packaging and storage is key in logistics and industry. Quantum-classical hybrid models allow for the optimisation of goods layout by analysing variables such as dimensions, weight and compatibility between products. This reduces waste, minimises operating costs and improves planning in sectors such as distribution and e-commerce.
Furthermore, their ability to process solutions in real time facilitates response to changes in demand and optimises inventory management.

# Initiative 7.3: Creation of an award for quantum- e technologies in Spain

An award will be created for Spanish progress in quantum technologies, aimed at young researchers or spin-offs that have made significant advances. This award will have different categories, such as recognition for scientists who excel in the field of quantum technologies or for spin-offs or start-ups for the technological transfer of a discovery. It may also include special mentions that encourage female talent to enter this field and help close the gender gap. The award aims to recognise and encourage young talent in quantum technologies and support those who demonstrate significant advances with the potential to generate an impact on the industry. Synergies with access to the network of incubation centres and quantum computing capabilities may be explored.
The possibility of naming this award the "Feli-sa Martín Bravo Award" will be explored, in honour of the first female doctor of physics in Spain. This award could serve to follow her example of excellence and innovation, encouraging new generations of scientists, entrepreneurs and businesswomen to transfer their discoveries from the laboratory to industry, strengthening Spain's position as a leader in quantum research and its deployment in industry.

## Initiative 7.4: Complementary strategies and plans

Coordination, complementarity and the creation of synergies between possible strategies, plans or public policies on quantum technologies that may be implemented by the different bodies of the General State Administration, the Autonomous Communities or Local Entities will be promoted. It is known that:
- The Ministry of Defence will review the Defence Technology and Innovation Strategy (ETID), in which it will attach significant importance to the development of quantum technologies, among other sectors, and direct investment and cooperation in R&D&I for military purposes.
- The CSIC is designing its Quantum Science and Technology Strategy 2025-2030, with the aim of strengthening research into quantum technologies in Spain, consolidating existing lines of research and creating new ones, with a focus on attracting talent and excellence. The aim is to coordinate and catalyse the national quantum community, as well as to promote technology transfer to the productive sector. It also aims to act as a reference entity and promote a research centre in quantum technologies for their harmonised implementation and to promote their growth through collaborations at national and European level.
- The PERTE Commissioner for Cutting-Edge Health, which reports to the Ministry of Science, Innovation and Universities, is working on a strategic health agenda that will provide continuity to the current plan, which includes the launch of initiatives until 2025. The strategic objectives will continue to include personalised precision medicine, the development of new innovative medicines and the national health data space and its exploitation, using AI techniques, where quantum technologies may be present as facilitators, both for the computing power required for large amounts of data and for the protection of highly sensitive data.
- The CCN is contributing, together with the European Commission and ENISA, to the drafting of an EU post-quantum cryptography strategy and policy, which will be transferred and advanced in Spain once the European documents are published.

# C C A A P P ÍÍT T U U L L O O V V I I. .CHAPTER VI.

## Funding: an area open to continuity

Quantum technologies are high-impact technologies that require a solid and sustained investment strategy over time. For this reason, since 2020, the Spanish Government, through the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, has invested around €300 million in these technologies through initiatives by various ministries, but mainly the MICIU and the MTDFP.
This Strategy aims to prioritise investments in the field of quantum technologies, focusing on those areas that present an opportunity for the country. In particular, two main sources of funding will be used, depending on the availability of funds: the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan (PRTR) components 13, 15 and 16 and the ERDF's Multi-regional Programme for Spain 2021-2027 (POPE).
In addition, coordination mechanisms will be established between all public funding agents, such as CDTI and ICO-AXIS, to promote specialisation, avoid overlaps and each have an impact in their area of action with regard to the life cycle of companies and the risk of investment at each stage, in order to make the allocated resources more efficient.
The approximate budget is estimated at €808 million, distributed among the initiatives included in the following table. Implementation is subject to the budgetary resources available in each financial year, and therefore approval of this Strategy does not imply a financial commitment. The potential to attract public and private investment could raise the total investment to around €1.5 billion.
The Strategy has a budget of €808 million with the potential to attract investments of up to €1.5 billion
Initiatives
PRTR92 MTDFP93
ERDF94 RED.ES
(*)
PRTR SETT(**)
9
5
Calls for use cases (initiatives 1.1, 2.2, 4.3 and 5.3)
€10 million
€10 million
Incubators and networked test beds to promote Spanish quantum spin-offs (initiative 1.2)
€15 million
Increase in venture capital investment in Spanish quantum start-ups and scale-ups (initiative 1.3)
€400 million
Collaboration between leading institutions in quantum communications (initiative 3.1)
€10 million
Development of satellite missions for quantum key distribution (initiative 3.2)
€125 million
Promotion of the development of quantum standards at the Spanish Metrology Centre (initiative 4.1)
€3 million
Promotion of the use of the ROA quantum clock at the ROA (initiative 4.2)
€4 million
Reinforcement of clean room and laboratory infrastructure (initiative 6.1)
€11 million
Auxiliary industries and enabling technologies enabling technologies (initiative 6.3)
€200 million
Quantum chip pilot lines within the Chips JU (initiative 6.4) (***)
€20 million
98 / SPAIN'S NATIONAL QUANTUM TECHNOLOGIES STRATEGY
- (*) However, in order to ensure the efficient distribution of funds from the ERDF Programme (€40 million), a public consultation will be held with the participation of the various stakeholders. This consultation will enable opinions to be gathered, specific needs to be identified and the allocation of resources to be optimised. The ERDF funds will be managed and implemented by the public entity Red.es and are expressed in terms of ERDF aid.
- (**) Up to €200 million from the PERTE Chip Fund will be prioritised for auxiliary and enabling companies in the semiconductor industry for their transition to quantum or hybrid technologies, at least €400 million from the PERTE Chip and Next Tech Funds for direct investments in quantum companies or co-investments with venture capital and corporate funds, through the Spanish Society for Technological Transformation (SETT) of the Ministry for Digital Transformation and Public Administration. It should be noted that this prioritisation is considered an estimated amount based on potential absorption capacity.
(***) Up to €20 million from the PERTE Chip programme will be prioritised to co-finance Spanish entities selected in the winning consortia of the Chips JU calls for proposals, through the Secretariat of State for Telecommunications and Digital Infrastructure of the Ministry for Digital Transformation and Public Administration. This estimate is subject to the budgetary availability of each financial year in question.
This estimated budget will be updated regularly based on available opportunities and is subject to the budgetary availability of the corresponding financial year, as it fulfils an estimated programmatic planning objective. Financing plans arising from European negotiations within the new multiannual financial framework 2028-2034 will also be taken into account, bearing in mind that the Draghi Report recommends the issuance of common debt to finance projects that strengthen the competitiveness and security of the EU, through a mechanism similar to the Recovery Plan to boost strategic autonomy in critical sectors and ensure stable financing for digital transformation.
This Strategy seeks to create a robust, coordinated and competitive ecosystem for accessing both European and international sources of funding. In this context, the various ministries play a key role, not only in defending national interests within European funding programmes, but also in coordinating the ecosystem to maximise the submission of Spanish applications to the available calls for proposals.
y funding opportunities at European level
It is essential to diversify funding sources. To this end, the following list of options is presented, which is not intended to be exhaustive or focus exclusively on quantum technologies, but rather to provide an overview of programmes that can bring value and investment opportunities to the various players in the Spanish quantum ecosystem.
100 / SPAIN'S NATIONAL QUANTUM TECHNOLOGIES STRATEGY
Programme
Budget
Additional information
Horizon Europe 2021-2027
€95.5 billion
The main European R&D&I programme with funding for disruptive technologies, including quantum technologies. Attention should be paid to the following areas:
Pillar I – Excellent science
Pillar II – Global challenges and European industrial competitiveness
Pillar III – Innovative Europe
Funds projects in quantum computing and simulation, quantum integration in supercomputing, quantum sensing and metrology, cryptography and quantum communications.
Digital Europe Programme 2021-2027
€8.1 billion
Initiative focused on the deployment of technologies in Europe. This programme should focus on the following pillars:
Cybersecurity, which funds the EuroQCI infrastructure.
European Chips for Europe, which funds the Quantum Chips for Europe component through the Chips JU.
Supercomputing, which funds the EuroQCS infrastructure through the EuroHPC JU.
Advanced & Digital Skills, which funds digital skills education programmes.
Programme
Budget
Additional information
Connecting Europe Facility
– Digital 2021-2027
€1.5 billion
This programme focuses on connectivity in Europe and funds digital infrastructure, connectivity and cybersecurity, with specific opportunities for quantum technologies96.
InvestEU 2021 – 2027
It will mobilise private investment of up to
€372 billion, with a public guarantee of €26.2 billion
The funds will be distributed across four key policy areas:
Sustainable infrastructure: €9.9 billion. Research, innovation and digitalisation: €6.6 billion. Small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs): €6.9 billion. Social investment and skills: €2.8 billion.
Fund Innovation
It is estimated at €40 billion between 2020 and 2030
97
Its main objective is to support technologies that contribute to to decarbonisation and climate neutrality. Quantum technologies can play a role
in this area.
Agency Space European
(ESA)
Investments in the form of tender
Funds from tenders for space-related projects
quantum communications.
102 / SPAIN'S NATIONAL QUANTUM TECHNOLOGIES STRATEGY

## This Strategy seeks to create a robust, coordinated and competitive ecosystem for accessing both European and international sources of funding.

There are also initiatives to coordinate, consolidate and strengthen all programmes, such as the Strategic Technologies for Europe Platform (STEP). Its main objective is to channel resources to support research, infrastructure development and the commercialisation of critical technologies, including quantum technologies. The implementation of STEP is based on the regulatory frameworks of each associated programme. The "STEP Seal" has also been introduced, a label that recognises high-quality projects, helping them to obtain additional funding and support from public and private investors. In its first year, STEP has mobilised more than €15 billion98to boost investment in Europe, demonstrating its effectiveness in promoting strategic technologies.
In addition, certain organisations and institutions can provide support at different stages of the development and deployment of quantum technologies, without this list being exhaustive.
103
Entity
European Innovation Council and European Innovation Council Fund
Additional
Support for start-ups and projects with venture capital and grants. Part of the Horizon Europe programme.
European Investment Bank (EIB)
Specific funding for strategic innovation projects, including those involving quantum technologies.
European Space Programme Agency (EUSPA)
It is structured into five main areas: COPERNICUS, EGNOS, GALILEO, Secure SAT-
COM and SSA. Quantum technologies are gradually being integrated into the technological evolution of each of these areas.
Specifically, in the field of defence, the following sources of funding are available, including both European and international programmes and organisations, although this list is not exhaustive.
Fund
Budget
Additional information
European Defence Fund 2021-2027
€7.3 billion
It annually funds collaborative defence projects, including quantum technologies (PNT sensors, op-tronics, RF and secure cryptography), as well as initiatives for SMEs and disruptive technologies, with the participation of Spanish entities.
European Defence Agency
N/A
Facilitates the launch of R&D activities in technologies of interest to defence, including quantum technologies.
DIANA Initiative
(NATO)
N/A
Accelerates solutions based on disruptive and emerging technologies, especially those developed for the commercial sector with applications in security and defence, leveraging the infrastructure of NATO nations' accelerators and test centres.
NATO
Innovation Fund (NIF)
More than €1 billion
Independent venture capital fund to invest in deep tech start-ups (including quantum technologies), strengthening the defence, security and resilience of participating nations.

# C C A A P P ÍÍT T U U L L O O V V I I I I. CHAPTER VII. .

## Governance of Spain's Quantum Technologies Strategy

To ensure the effective implementation and achievement of the strategic objectives of Spain's Quantum Technologies Strategy, it is essential to establish a structured and coordinated governance model that allows for the coordination of efforts between the different levels of government and the quantum ecosystem as a whole.
The proposed governance model will be based on the creation of an Interministerial Working Group on Quantum Technologies, within the framework of the Interministerial Commission for the coordination and monitoring of measures in favour of connectivity and the digitalisation of the economy and society in the sphere of the General State Administration of the Ministry for Digital Transformation and the Civil Service. It will be chaired by the latter, together with the Ministry of Science, Innovation and Universities. This Group will enable effective coordination between the various ministries involved in the development and implementation of this Strategy and will ensure its deployment with a coordinated, cross-cutting and efficient approach to the use of available resources.
Finally, it should be noted that, in addition to the ongoing monitoring of the National Strategy, efforts will be made to contribute to the key performance indicators recently published by Quantum Flagship99 , which are ambitious in order to track progress towards 2030. This intention to align with European standards not only reinforces the commitment to best practices, but also allows progress to be assessed more objectively and comparatively at national and European level.
At the regional level, an AI Working Subgroup will be established within the Sectoral Conference, jointly between the Ministry for Digital Transformation and Public Administration and the Ministry of Science, Innovation and Universities, which will be invited to participate. This Subgroup will strengthen coordination with the Autonomous Communities and facilitate the integration of regional plans into the National Strategy, avoiding duplication and promoting synergies in infrastructure development, talent training, project financing and support for the quantum business sector in each territory.
Furthermore, in order to ensure effective implementation at the local level, the participation of local authorities that already have initiatives or strategies in quantum technologies will be promoted. The inclusion of these entities will make it possible to align municipal and regional projects with the national strategy, optimise the impact of investments and ensure that cities and regions with quantum potential can act as hubs of innovation and experimentation.
108 / SPAIN'S NATIONAL QUANTUM TECHNOLOGIES STRATEGY
To streamline dialogue between the public sector and the Spanish quantum ecosystem, the entity defined in priority 7 will act as the main interlocutor with all government partners, swiftly and efficiently conveying the needs, opportunities and challenges of the private and research sectors. Its role will be key in facilitating strategic decision-making, improving resource allocation and ensuring that public-private investments are geared towards maximising the impact on Spain's competitiveness.
The governance model will also provide for the creation of mechanisms to monitor compliance with initiatives and evaluate progress, enabling the Strategy to be reviewed and its lines of action adapted every two years, including a progress report coordinated by the Ministry for Digital Transformation and Public Service, based on technological advances, the economic context and the funding opportunities available at national and European level.
To ensure effective implementation and the achievement of strategic objectives, it is essential to establish a structured and coordinated governance model.
and coordinated governance model.
The use cases presented in this Strategy are excerpts from the use cases collected in the document "Quantum Spain. quantum computing use cases" by the AMETIC Quantum Technologies Working Group.
